risk factors 17 item 1b unresolved staff comments 32 item 2. properties 32 item 3. legal proceedings 32 item 4. mine safety disclosures 37 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 38 item 6. selected financial data 39 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 40 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 66 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 117 item 9a. controls and procedures 117 item 9b. other information 117 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 119 item 11. executive compensation 119 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 119 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 119 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 119 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 120 signatures 133 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview wynn resorts, limited, ("wynn resorts", or together with its subsidiaries "we" or the "company"), led by chairman and chief executive officer, stephen a. wynn, is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts (integrated resorts) which integrate accommodations and amenities, including fine dining, premium retail offerings, distinctive entertainment and convention facilities. wynn resorts currently owns 72 % of wynn macau, limited, which operates an integrated resort in the macau special administrative region of the people's republic of china ( macau ). wynn resorts also owns 100% of and operates an integrated resort in las vegas, nevada. we are currently constructing wynn palace, an integrated resort in the cotai area of macau, which we expect to open in the first half of 2016. in november 2014, we were awarded a gaming license in massachusetts and expect to develop and construct an integrated resort in everett, massachusetts. we present the operating results of our two existing integrated resorts in the following two segments: macau operations and las vegas operations. for more information on our segments, see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 18 segment information. wynn resorts, a nevada corporation, was formed in 2002. wynn resorts files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments of such reports with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). any document wynn resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e. washington, d.c. 20549 or at the sec's internet site address at http://www.sec.gov . information related to the operation of the sec's public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com , wynn resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party sec filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. the information found on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. our resorts macau operations wynn macau opened on september 6, 2006. on april 21, 2010, we opened encore at wynn macau, an expansion of wynn macau. we refer to the integrated wynn macau and encore at wynn macau resort as wynn macau | encore or as our macau operations. we operate wynn macau | encore under a 20-year casino concession agreement granted by the macau government in june 2002. see "regulation and licensing macau" for details on the casino concession agreement. we lease from the macau government an approximately 16 acre parcel of land in downtown macau's inner harbor where wynn macau | encore is located. see "item 2 properties" for details on the land concession agreement. wynn macau | encore features the following as of february 13, 2015: approximately 284,000 square feet of casino space offering 24-hour gaming and a full range of games with 498 table games and 625 slot machines, private gaming salons, sky casinos and a poker pit; two luxury hotel towers with a total of 1,008 spacious guest rooms and suites; casual and fine dining in eight restaurants; approximately 57,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail shopping, including stores and boutiques by bvlgari, cartier, chanel, dior, dunhill, ermenegildo zegna, ferrari, giorgio armani, graff, gucci, hermes, hugo boss, jaegar-lecoultre, loro piana, louis vuitton, miu miu, piaget, prada, richard mille, roger dubuis, rolex, tiffany, vacheron constantin, van cleef &amp; arpels, versace, vertu, and others; approximately 31,000 square feet of space for lounges and meeting facilities; recreation and leisure facilities, including two health clubs, spas, a salon and a pool; and rotunda show featuring a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling along with gold "prosperity tree" and "dragon of fortune" attractions. 3 table of contents in response to our evaluation of our macau operations and the reactions of our guests, we have made and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to this resort. in february 2015, we completed the renovation of approximately 27,000 square feet of our casino space at wynn macau for new vip gaming rooms. las vegas operations wynn las vegas opened on april 28, 2005. on december 22, 2008, we opened encore at wynn las vegas, an expansion of wynn las vegas. we refer to the integrated wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas resort as wynn las vegas | encore or as our las vegas operations. wynn las vegas | encore is located at the intersection of the las vegas strip and sands avenue, and occupies approximately 215 acres of land fronting the las vegas strip. in addition, we own approximately 18 acres across sands avenue, a portion of which is utilized for employee parking and an office building, and approximately 5 acres adjacent to the golf course on which an office building is located. wynn las vegas | encore features the following as of february 13, 2015: approximately 186,000 square feet of casino space, offering 24-hour gaming and a full range of games with 232 table games and 1,849 slot machines, private gaming salons, a sky casino, a poker room, and a race and sports book; two luxury hotel towers with a total of 4,748 spacious guest rooms, suites and villas; 34 food and beverage outlets featuring signature chefs; approximately 99,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail shopping, including stores and boutiques by alexander mcqueen, brioni, cartier, chanel, chlo , chopard, dior, givenchy, graff, hermes, iwc schaffhausen, jaeger-lecoultre, loro piana, louis vuitton, manolo blahnik, nicholas kirkwood, oscar de la renta, piaget, rolex, vertu and others; approximately 290,000 square feet of meeting and convention space; three nightclubs and a beach club; specially designed theater presenting le r ve-the dream, a water-based theatrical production and a theater presenting "steve wynn's showstoppers," a broadway-style entertainment production; recreation and leisure facilities, including an 18-hole golf course, swimming pools, private cabanas and two full service spas and salons; a ferrari and maserati automobile dealership; and wedding chapels. in response to our evaluation of our las vegas operations and the reactions of our guests, we have and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to this resort. construction and development opportunities in september 2011, palo real estate company limited ( palo ) and wynn resorts (macau), s.a. ( wynn macau sa ), each an indirect subsidiary of wynn macau, limited, formally accepted the terms and conditions of a land concession contract from the macau government for approximately 51 acres of land in the cotai area of macau. on may 2, 2012, the land concession contract was gazetted by the government of macau evidencing the final step in the granting of the land concession. the initial term of the cotai land concession contract is 25 years from may 2, 2012, and it may be renewed with government approval for successive periods. the total land premium payable, including interest as required by the land concession contract, is $193.4 million. an initial payment of $62.5 million was paid in december 2011, with eight additional semi-annual payments of approximately $16.4 million each (including interest at 5%) which began in november 2012. as of december 31, 2014 , the company has recorded this obligation with $30.8 million included as a current liability and $16.0 million included as a long-term liability. the company will also be required to make annual lease payments of $0.8 million during the resort construction period and annual lease payments of approximately $1.1 million once the development is completed. on the land subject to the cotai land concession, we are currently constructing wynn palace, an integrated resort containing a 1,700 -room hotel, performance lake, meeting space, casino, spa, retail offerings and food and beverage outlets. the total project budget, including construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, land costs and financing fees, 4 table of contents is $4.1 billion . as of december 31, 2014 , we have invested $1.8 billion in the project. we expect to open wynn palace in the first half of 2016. on july 29, 2013, wynn macau sa and palo executed a guaranteed maximum price construction ( gmp ) contract with leighton contractors (asia) limited, acting as the general contractor. under the gmp contract, the general contractor is responsible for both the construction and design of the project. the general contractor is obligated to substantially complete the project in the first half of 2016 for a guaranteed maximum price of hk$20 billion (approximately $2.57 billion). an early completion bonus for achievement of substantial completion on or before january 25, 2016, will be paid to the general contractor if certain conditions are satisfied under the gmp contract. while our general contractor has notified us that certain conditions will not be satisfied under the gmp contract by the early completion target, the contractor stated it was still on target to complete the project on time and we continue to expect to open the property in the first half of 2016. both the contract time and guaranteed maximum price are subject to further adjustment under certain specified conditions. the performance of the general contractor is backed by a full completion guarantee given by leighton holdings limited, the parent company of the general contractor, as well as a performance bond for 5% of the guaranteed maximum price. on september 17, 2014, the massachusetts gaming commission ("mgc") designated wynn ma, llc ("wynn ma"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the company, the award winner of the greater boston (region a) gaming license. on november 4, 2014, a vote upheld the expanded gaming law in massachusetts. on november 7, 2014, the gaming license awarded to us became effective and we paid the $85.0 million license fee. on january 2, 2015, we purchased 33 acres of land in everett, massachusetts, along the mystic river. on this land, we intend to develop and operate an integrated resort containing a hotel, restaurants, casino, spa, premium retail offerings, meeting and convention space and a waterfront boardwalk. our strategy we believe that stephen a. wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. mr. wynn's involvement with our resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. we integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including convention facilities, entertainment, fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to our international customer base. our resorts are designed, built and operated to provide a premium experience for our guests. our business is dependent upon repeat visitation from our guests and we believe superior customer experience and service is the best marketing strategy to attract and retain our customers. our company heavily emphasizes human resources and staff training to ensure our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. we market our resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. we also create general market awareness for our resorts through various media channels, including social media, television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards. mr. wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. the senior executive team has an average of over 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. we also have an approximately 120-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines. for the seventh consecutive year, wynn macau and the spa at wynn macau received the forbes five-star distinction, while encore at wynn macau and the spa at encore at wynn macau received the forbes five-star distinction for the third consecutive year. for the ninth consecutive year, the tower suites at wynn las vegas has received the forbes five-star distinction. the spa at wynn las vegas earned five-star recognition from forbes for the seventh year in a row. the tower suites at encore at wynn las vegas and the spa at encore at wynn las vegas are also recipients of the forbes five-star distinction. in addition, a number of restaurants in our resorts have earned star-distinction from forbes, with 51 stars in total for the current year. we continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in the united states, and worldwide. 5 table of contents market and competition the casino resort industry is highly competitive. both our macau operations and our las vegas operations compete with other high-quality casino resorts. resorts located on or near our properties compete on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. we seek to differentiate our macau and las vegas resorts from other major resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of superior design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury. macau macau is governed as a special administrative region of china and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and approximately one hour away via ferry from, hong kong. macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 50 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland china, with two neighboring islands, taipa and coloane, between which the cotai area is located. in 2002, the government of macau ended a 40 year monopoly of the conduct of gaming operations by conducting a competitive process resulting in the issuance of concessions to conduct gaming operations to three concessionaires (including wynn macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of macau, to each grant one subconcession, resulting in a total of six gaming concessionaires. in addition to wynn macau, each of sociedade de jogos de macau ( sjm ) and galaxy entertainment group limited are primary concessionaires and sands china ltd., melco crown and mgm china holdings limited operate under subconcessions. there is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. currently, there are 35 operating casinos in macau. we believe that macau is located in one of the world's largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. according to macau statistical information, casinos in macau, the largest gaming market in the world, generated approximately $44.1 billion in gaming revenue in 2014, a 2.6% decline from the approximately $45.2 billion generated in 2013. the macau market has experienced a significant increase in annual gaming revenue from the $2.9 billion generated in 2002, with the 2014 year-over-year decline in annual gaming revenue being the first over this period. macau's gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. tourist arrivals in 2014 were 31.5 million, compared to 29.3 million in 2013. the macau market has also experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last several years. as of december 31, 2014, there were 27,904 hotel rooms, 5,711 table games and 13,018 slot machines in macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms, 2,762 table games and 6,546 slot machines as of december 31, 2006. gaming customers traveling to macau have typically come from nearby destinations in asia including hong kong, mainland china, taiwan, south korea and malaysia. according to the macau statistics and census service monthly bulletin of statistics, approximately 90% of the tourists who visited macau in 2014 came from hong kong, mainland china and taiwan. travel to macau by citizens of mainland china requires a visa. chinese government officials have, on occasion, exercised their authority to adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future. wynn macau faces competition from casinos located throughout the world, including singapore, australia, philippines, las vegas and cruise ships in asia that offer gaming. las vegas las vegas is the largest gaming market in the united states. during 2014, the economic environment in the gaming and hotel markets in las vegas continued to improve with increased visitation and hotel room demand. during 2014, the average daily room rate increased 5.2% and visitation increased 3.7% to 41.1 million visitors compared to 2013. las vegas strip gaming revenues decreased by 2.1% from $6.5 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013 to $6.4 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014. during 2013, the average daily room rate increased 2.4%, visitation remained relatively flat at 39.7 million visitors, and las vegas strip gaming revenues increased 4.8%, all as compared to the year ended december 31, 2012. las vegas strip resorts experienced 2014 year-over-year increases of 2.2% and 7.8% in occupancy and revenue per available room, respectively. our las vegas operations are located on the las vegas strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in las vegas. our las vegas operations also compete, to some extent, with other casino resorts throughout the united states, and elsewhere in the world. the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. new or renovated casinos in asia, including singapore, the philippines, south korea and macau, could draw gaming customers away from las vegas. 6 table of contents geographic data geographic data are reported in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 18 segment information. additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. regulation and licensing macau general. as a casino concessionaire, wynn macau, an indirect 72% owned subsidiary of the company, is subject to the regulatory control of the government of macau. the government has adopted laws and administrative regulations governing the operation of casinos in macau. only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the macau government and each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the macau government which, together with the law and administrative regulations, form the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. under the law and administrative regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire's equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. the same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the macau government. concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the macau government and are ineffective without government approval. each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. the appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the macau government. all contracts placing the management of a concessionaire's casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the macau government. concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. concessionaires are obligated to withhold applicable taxes, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. the withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. a games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. for a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. the term of a games promoters' license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. the gaming inspection and coordination bureau ( dicj ) implemented certain instructions in 2009,which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to, and by, games promoters. such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on games promoters. under macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. these contractors are subject to approval of the macau government. changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. to conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the macau government. 7 table of contents macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires' casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. the macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity. the government of macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. during any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. the government of macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. the government of macau may also terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract. concession agreement. the concession agreement between wynn macau sa and the macau government required wynn macau sa to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of december 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion macau patacas (approximately $500 million) in macau-related projects by june 2009. these obligations were satisfied upon the opening of wynn macau in 2006. wynn macau sa was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million macau pataca (approximately $87 million) bank guarantee from banco national ultramarino, s.a. ( bnu ) that was effective until march 31, 2007. the amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million macau patacas (approximately $37 million) for the period from april 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. this guarantee, which is for the benefit of the macau government, assures wynn macau sa's performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. wynn macau sa is obligated, upon demand by bnu, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the macau government. bnu is currently paid an annual fee by wynn macau sa for the guarantee of approximately 2.3 million patacas (approximately $0.3 million). the government of macau may redeem the concession beginning on june 24, 2017, and in such event wynn macau sa will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if wynn macau sa fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau sa: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, wynn macau sa will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau sa will be transferred to the government without compensation. in addition, the government of macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case wynn macau sa would be entitled to reasonable compensation. 8 table of contents nevada introduction. the ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the state of nevada are subject to the nevada gaming control act and the regulations made under the act, as well as to various local ordinances. our las vegas operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the nevada gaming commission, the nevada state gaming control board and the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which we refer to herein collectively as the nevada gaming authorities. policy concerns of gaming laws. the laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the nevada gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. such public policy concerns include, among other things: preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the nevada gaming authorities; preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our las vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our subsidiary, wynn las vegas, llc, the owner and operator of our las vegas operations, has been approved by the nevada gaming authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. these gaming licenses are not transferable. company registration requirements. wynn resorts was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn resorts holdings, llc ( wynn resorts holdings ), a wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the nevada gaming control act. wynn resorts holdings was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. in addition to being licensed, wynn las vegas, llc, as an issuer of debt securities registered with the sec, also qualified as a registered company. wynn las vegas capital corp., a co-issuer of the debt securities, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source. periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the nevada gaming commission and provide any other information that the nevada gaming commission may require. substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the nevada gaming commission. individual licensing requirements. no person may become a more than 5% stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the nevada gaming authorities. the nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the nevada gaming authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the nevada gaming authorities. all applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. however, the nevada gaming authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason which they deem appropriate. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the nevada gaming authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. if the nevada gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the nevada 9 table of contents gaming commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in nevada. redemption of securities owned by an unsuitable person. the company's articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. if wynn resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. if the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the nasdaq global select market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and ask prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. wynn resorts' right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as the board of directors of wynn resorts elects, and as set forth in the company's articles of incorporation. on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts' gaming compliance committee concluded an investigation after receiving an independent report by freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp (the freeh report ) detailing a pattern of misconduct by aruze usa, inc. ("aruze") (at the time a stockholder of wynn resorts), universal entertainment corporation, aruze's parent company, and kazuo okada, (the majority shareholder of universal entertainment corporation and a former member of the board of directors of wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited) (collectively, the okada parties ). based on the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that the okada parties are unsuitable persons under article vii of the company's articles of incorporation. the board of directors was unanimous (other than mr. okada) in its determination. after authorizing the redemption of the aruze shares, as discussed below, the board of directors took certain actions to protect the company and its operations from any influence of an unsuitable person, including placing limitations on the provision of certain operating information to unsuitable persons and formation of an executive committee of the board to manage the business and affairs of the company during the period between each annual meeting. the charter of the executive committee provides that unsuitable persons are not permitted to serve on the committee. all members of the board, other than mr. okada, were appointed to the executive committee on february 18, 2012. the board of directors also requested that mr. okada resign as a director of wynn resorts (under nevada corporation law, a board of directors does not have the power to remove a director) and recommended that mr. okada be removed as a member of the board of directors of wynn macau, limited. on february 18, 2012, mr. okada was removed from the board of directors of wynn las vegas capital corp., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts. on february 24, 2012, mr. okada was removed from the board of directors of wynn macau, limited and on february 22, 2013, he was removed from the board of directors of wynn resorts by a stockholder vote in which 99.6% of the over 86 million shares voted were cast in favor of removal. mr. okada resigned from the board of directors of wynn resorts on february 21, 2013. although the company has retained the structure of the executive committee, the board has resumed its past role in managing the business and affairs of the company. based on the board of directors' finding of unsuitability, on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts redeemed and canceled aruze's 24,549,222 shares of wynn resorts' common stock. following a finding of "unsuitability," article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation authorizes redemption at "fair value" of the shares held by the unsuitable persons. the company engaged an independent financial advisor to assist in the fair value calculation and concluded that a discount to the then current trading price was appropriate because of, among other things, restrictions on most of the shares held by aruze under the terms of the stockholders agreement (as defined below). pursuant to its articles of incorporation, wynn resorts issued the redemption price promissory note (the redemption note ) to aruze in redemption of the shares. the redemption note has a principal amount of $1.94 billion, matures on february 18, 2022 and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum, payable annually in arrears on each anniversary of the date of the redemption note. the company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at any time and from time to time, and without penalty or premium, prepay the whole or any portion of the principal or interest due under the redemption note. in no instance shall any payment obligation under the redemption note be accelerated except in the sole and absolute discretion of wynn resorts or as specifically mandated by law. the indebtedness evidenced by the redemption note is and shall be subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in the redemption note, to the prior payment in full of all existing and future obligations of wynn resorts or any of its affiliates in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money of any kind or nature. 10 table of contents the okada parties have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares and the company is currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. see item 1a risk factors , item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies . the outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. the company's claims and the okada parties' counterclaims are in a preliminary stage and management has determined that based on proceedings to date, it is currently unable to determine the probability of the outcome of this matter or the range of reasonably possible loss, if any. an adverse judgment or settlement involving payment of a material amount could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition. consequences of violating gaming laws. if the nevada gaming commission determines that we have violated the nevada gaming control act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the nevada gaming control act, or of the regulations of the nevada gaming commission, at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. further, the nevada gaming commission could appoint a supervisor to operate our las vegas operations and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor's appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the state of nevada. limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. requirements for voting or nonvoting securities holders. regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of wynn resorts' voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person's suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of wynn resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. the applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. the nevada gaming control act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the nevada gaming commission. the nevada gaming control act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company's voting securities to apply to the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board mails the written notice requiring such filing. however, an institutional investor, as defined in the nevada gaming control act, which beneficially owns more than 10% but not more than 11% of a registered company's voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by the registered company may not be required to file such an application. further, an institutional investor which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company's voting securities may apply to the nevada gaming commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company's voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by the registered company. an institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the nevada gaming commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company's voting securities for investment purposes only. activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and, other activities that the nevada gaming commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. the articles of incorporation of wynn resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions. wynn resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in nevada which may be examined by the nevada gaming authorities at any time. if any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the nevada gaming authorities. a failure to make the disclosure may be 11 table of contents grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. we are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of wynn resorts' voting securities. the nevada gaming commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the nevada gaming control act. the certificates representing shares of wynn resorts' common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws. consequences of being found unsuitable. any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the nevada gaming commission or by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. the same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the nevada gaming commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. we will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to wynn resorts; pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or, fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person's voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. gaming laws relating to debt securities ownership. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the nevada gaming commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the nevada gaming control act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission, it: pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or, makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. approval of public offerings. wynn resorts and wynn las vegas, llc may not make a public offering (debt or equity) without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. on march 21, 2013, the nevada gaming commission granted us and wynn las vegas, llc prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of three years (the shelf approval ). the shelf approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board. the shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the nevada gaming authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. any representation to the contrary is unlawful. approval of changes in control. a registered company must obtain the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company. entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the nevada state gaming control board and nevada gaming commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. the nevada gaming commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons 12 table of contents having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. approval of defensive tactics. the nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. the nevada gaming commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon nevada's gaming industry and to further nevada's policy in order to: assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies; preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and, promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. approvals may be required from the nevada gaming commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. the nevada gaming control act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company's board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. fees and taxes. license fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the state of nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries' respective operations are conducted. depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or, the number of table games operated. a live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished. foreign gaming investigations. any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, licensees ), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of nevada, is required to deposit with the nevada state gaming control board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the nevada state gaming control board of the licensee's or registrant's participation in such foreign gaming. the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the nevada gaming control act. a licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if it: knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of nevada; engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the state of nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. the conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at wynn las vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which has granted wynn las vegas, llc licenses for such purposes. in addition to approving wynn las vegas, llc, the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. clark county gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. the county has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. 13 table of contents massachusetts introduction. on november 22, 2011, massachusetts governor deval patrick signed chapter 194 of the acts of 2011 "an act establishing expanded gaming in the commonwealth, legislation (the gaming act ) designed to provide significant benefits to the commonwealth of massachusetts by advancing job creation and economic development. the gaming act allows for up to three destination resort casinos located in three geographically diverse regions across the commonwealth and a single slots facility, not pegged in any particular region. the licensing fee for each resort casino is $85 million and requires a capital investment, to include a hotel facility, of at least $500 million. the commonwealth will receive 25% of gross gaming revenues. the gaming act also called for the creation of a five member independent body, the mgc, to oversee the implementation and licensing process. the mgc is in the process of promulgating detailed regulations to govern the operations of the resort casinos and the slot parlor facility. these regulations and any changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our future massachusetts gaming operations and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, wynn ma, llc, the future owner and operator of the wynn resort in massachusetts, was the applicant under the mgc's phase 1 regulations and was determined to be suitable for the purpose of holding a category 1 gaming license. on september 17, 2014, the mgc designated wynn ma, llc the award winner of the greater boston (region a) gaming license. on november 7, 2014, the gaming license awarded to us became effective. company registration requirements. in addition, pursuant to the phase 1 regulations, the following entities and person are deemed to be qualifiers subject to investigation: all members, transferees of a member's interest, directors and managers of the licensee and, in the judgment of the mgc, each lender, each holder of indebtedness, each underwriter, each close associate, each executive and each agent. as a result, wynn resorts, its key employees and its directors were therefore subject to a suitability investigation. wynn resorts and all individual qualifiers were found suitable by the mgc. as our progress in massachusetts continues, additional entities and key employees may be required to file applications with the mgc and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the mgc. following wynn america, llc ("wynn america"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, limited, entering into a senior secured credit facility in november 2014, the mgc has requested additional applications, which are pending. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the mgc. if the mgc were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the mgc may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review. consequences of violating gaming laws. if the mgc determines that we have violated the gaming act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, the mgc set forth certain conditions in our gaming license. any violation of the gaming act, its regulations or any of our license conditions resulting in a limitation, conditioning or suspension of our gaming license would have a significant negative effect on our massachusetts gaming operations. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. pursuant to the gaming act, the mgc may grant a gaming beverage license for the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages for a gaming establishment. the division of gaming liquor enforcement of the alcoholic beverage control commission will have the authority to enforce, regulate and control the distribution of alcoholic beverages in a gaming establishment. the mgc may revoke, suspend, refuse to renew or refuse to transfer a gaming beverage license for violations of the gaming act that pertain to the sale and distribution of alcohol consumed on the premises and the regulations adopted by the mgc. the mgc is in the process of adopting regulations for the issuance of gaming beverage licenses. these regulations and any changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our future massachusetts gaming operations and results of operations. 14 table of contents other regulations in addition to gaming regulations, we are subject to extensive local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. these include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employment and immigration, currency and other transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, marketing and advertising, lending, debt collection, privacy, telemarketing, money laundering, laws and regulations administered by the office of foreign assets control, and anti-bribery laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our business and operating results. seasonality we may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. employees as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately 16,800 full-time equivalent employees (including approximately 7,200 in macau and 9,600 in las vegas). we entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and bartenders union local covering approximately 5,612 employees at our las vegas operations that will expire in july 2015. we also entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the transportation workers union in november 2010, which covers 425 table games dealers at our las vegas operations. certain other unions may seek to organize the workers of our las vegas operations. intellectual property among our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name wynn. wynn resorts has registered with the u.s. patent and trademark office ( pto ) a variety of the wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries, including in macau, china, singapore, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. we recognize that our intellectual property assets, including the word and logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in relevant jurisdictions. we have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world. on august 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with mr. wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the wynn surname and mr. wynn's persona in connection with our casino resorts. under a surname rights agreement, mr. wynn has acknowledged our exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide right to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the wynn surname for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. under a rights of publicity license, mr. wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until october 24, 2017. we have also registered various domain names with various domain registrars around the world. our domain registrations extend to various foreign countries such as .com.cn and .com.hk. we pursue domain related infringement on a case by case basis depending on the infringing domain in question. the information found on these websites is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. for more information regarding the company's intellectual property matters see item 1a "risk factors". 15 table of contents forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k based upon the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, information about our business strategy, development activities, competition and possible or assumed future results of operations, throughout this report and are often preceded by, followed by or include the words may, will, should, would, could, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, plan, continue or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties in item 1a risk factors and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec, such as: our dependence on stephen a. wynn; restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland china to macau; general global political and economic conditions, which may impact levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending; potential violations of law by mr. kazuo okada, a former shareholder of ours; changes in the valuation of the promissory note we issued in connection with the redemption of mr. okada's shares; pending or future legal proceedings, regulatory or enforcement actions or probity investigations; any violations by us of the anti-money laundering laws or foreign corrupt practices act; competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors, including new development and construction activities of competitors; our dependence on a limited number of resorts and locations for all of our cash flow; our relationships with macau games promoters; factors affecting the development and success of new gaming and resort properties (including limited labor resources in macau and government labor policies, unexpected cost increases, environmental regulation and our ability to secure federal, state and local permits and approvals necessary for our construction projects); our ability to maintain our customer relationships and collect and enforce gaming receivables; extensive regulation of our business and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations; our ability to maintain our gaming licenses and concessions; changes in gaming laws or regulations (including stricter smoking regulations in macau); changes in federal, foreign, or state tax laws or the administration of such laws; cybersecurity risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security; our current and future insurance coverage levels; conditions precedent to funding under our credit facilities; continued compliance with all provisions in our debt agreements; leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates); the impact on the travel and leisure industry from factors such as an outbreak of an infectious disease, extreme weather patterns or natural disasters, military conflicts and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks; our subsidiaries' ability to pay us dividends and distributions; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; doing business in foreign locations such as macau; legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions; and changes in exchange rates. further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the sec. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to us at the time this statement is made. we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, regarding matters which could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our business the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and reputation of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. mr. wynn's employment agreement expires in october 2022. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with wynn resorts. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. visitation to macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland china, restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china and the anti-corruption campaign. a significant number of our gaming customers at wynn macau come from mainland china. any economic disruption or contraction in china could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our property or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, policies adopted from time to time by the chinese government, including any travel restrictions imposed by china on its citizens such as restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland china for travel to macau, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. it is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented in 2009 restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens to macau and hong kong, will be put in place and travel policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. furthermore, the chinese government's ongoing anti-corruption campaign has had an overall chilling effect on the behavior of chinese consumers and their spending patterns both domestically and abroad. the campaign has specifically led to tighter monetary transfer regulations, including real time monitoring of certain financial channels, which could disrupt the number of visitors and the amount of money they can bring from mainland china to macau. the overall effect of the campaign and monetary transfer restrictions may result in decreased visitation and negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the global economy. consumer demand for casino/hotel resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the global economy which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general global economic conditions, high unemployment, the housing foreclosure crisis, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the global economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. 17 table of contents potential violations of law by mr. okada (former director and formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and his affiliates could have adverse consequences to the company. on february 18, 2012, the board of directors of wynn resorts received a report from freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp detailing numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and certain of his affiliates. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies. the company has provided the freeh report to applicable regulators and has been cooperating with related investigations of such regulators. the conduct of mr. okada and his affiliates and the outcome of any resulting regulatory findings could have adverse consequences to the company. a finding by regulatory authorities that mr. okada violated the fcpa on company property and/or otherwise involved the company in criminal or civil violations could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the company. relatedly, regulators have and may pursue separate investigations into the company's compliance with applicable laws in connection with the okada matter, as discussed in item 3 legal proceedings . while the company believes that it is in full compliance with all applicable laws, any such investigations could result in actions by regulators against the company, which could negatively affect the company's financial condition or results of operations. mr. okada and his affiliates have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares. an adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the related litigation could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business. on february 18, 2012, after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that each of the okada parties was unsuitable within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze's shares of wynn resorts' common stock. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies . on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts filed a complaint in the eighth judicial district court, clark county, nevada against the okada parties (as amended, the complaint ), alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims (the redemption action ) arising from the activities addressed in the freeh report. the company is seeking compensatory and special damages as well as a declaration that it acted lawfully and in full compliance with its articles of incorporation, bylaws and other governing documents in redeeming and canceling the shares of aruze. on march 12, 2012, the okada parties filed an answer denying the claims and a counterclaim (as amended, the counterclaim ) against the company, each of the members of the company's board of directors (other than mr. okada) and wynn resorts' general counsel (collectively, the wynn parties ), seeking, among other things a declaration that the redemption of aruze's shares was void, an injunction restoring aruze's share ownership, damages in an unspecified amount and rescission of the amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of january 6, 2010, by and among aruze, stephen a. wynn, and elaine p. wynn (the stockholders agreement ). in connection with the redemption action and counterclaim (1) various okada parties filed a complaint in the tokyo district court against the company, all members of the board of directors (other than mr. okada) and the company's general counsel alleging that the press release issued by the company in connection with the redemption action has damaged their social evaluation and credibility and seeking damages and legal fees, (2) four federal derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors, (3) two state derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors and (4) regulatory inquiries and investigations were initiated against the company. see item 3 legal proceedings , for a full description of these matters and status as of the date of this report. the company is vigorously pursuing its claims against the okada parties, and together with the other counter-defendants, vigorously defending against the counterclaim and other actions asserted against them. however, as with all litigation, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties, including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. change in valuation of our redemption price promissory note could have a negative impact on our results of operations. in connection with the redemption of the shares previously held by aruze, we recorded the fair value of the redemption note of approximately $1.94 billion in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. we utilized an independent third party valuation to assist in the determination of this fair value. in determining this fair value, we estimated the redemption note's present value using discounted cash flows with a probability weighted expected return for redemption assumptions and a discount rate which included time value and non-performance risk adjustments commensurate with risk of the redemption note. considerations for the redemption assumptions included the stated maturity of the redemption note, uncertainty of the related cash flows as well as potential effects of the following: uncertainties surrounding the potential outcome and timing of 18 table of contents pending litigation with the okada parties (see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies ); the outcome of on-going investigations of aruze by the united states attorney's office, the u.s. department of justice and the nevada gaming control board; and other potential legal and regulatory actions. in addition, in the furtherance of various future business objectives, we considered our ability, at our sole option, to prepay the redemption note at any time in accordance with its terms without penalty. accordingly, we reasonably determined that the estimated life of the redemption note could be less than the contractual life of the redemption note. in determination of the appropriate discount rate to be used in the estimated present value, the redemption note's subordinated position relative to all other debt in our capital structure and credit ratings associated with our traded debt were considered. observable inputs for the risk free rate based on federal reserve rates for u.s. treasury securities and credit risk spread based on a yield curve index of similarly rated debt was used. as a result of this analysis, we concluded the redemption notes' stated rate of 2% approximated a market rate. a change in any of the assumptions discussed above could result in a change in the fair value of this redemption note and significantly impact our results of operations. ongoing litigation and other disputes with mr. okada and certain of his affiliates could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny of regulators. there has been widespread publicity of the findings in the freeh report of prima facie violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates, the board of director's unsuitability finding, the redemption of shares and related litigation. the actions, litigation, and publicity could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. the disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company's gaming licenses, and possibly have a negative impact on the company's ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. any violation of applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations or the foreign corrupt practices act could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. recently, u.s. governmental authorities have evidenced an increased focus on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. the company has been subject to governmental and regulatory inquiries about compliance with such laws and regulations and continues to cooperate with all such inquiries. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. further, we have operations, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers, outside of the united states. we are therefore subject to regulations imposed by the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws, may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect such laws and regulations. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if we or our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. mr. okada failed to comply with internal training in these matters and failed to return to wynn resorts an executed acknowledgment agreeing to comply with the wynn resorts code of business conduct and ethics. on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts' filed a complaint in nevada state court against mr. okada and other entities alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the fcpa. for information on such complaint, the freeh report, which detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates, and the redemption aruze's shares, see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies . 19 table of contents our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition, which may increase in the future. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. our macau operations face intense competition with approximately 35 casinos currently operating in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three subconcessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires are expected to open additional facilities in the cotai area of macau over the next few years. the additional cotai facilities currently with planned opening dates in 2015 and 2016 are expected to increase total hotel room inventory by over 40% and significantly increase other gaming and non-gaming offerings in macau. our macau resort complex also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, including the marina bay sands and resorts world sentosa resorts operating in singapore, genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries are successful, our wynn macau resort will face additional regional competition. in las vegas, we compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with other casino/hotel facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from our las vegas operations. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are currently entirely dependent upon our macau operations and las vegas operations for all of our operating cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; a decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts; and the outbreak of infectious diseases. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. we could encounter substantial cost increases higher than expected in the development of our projects. we are currently constructing wynn palace, in the cotai area of macau, and in development of a wynn resort in massachusetts. the total project budget for wynn palace, including construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, land costs and financing fees, is $4.1 billion. the projected development costs for wynn palace reflect our best estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. contingencies that have been set aside by us to cover cost overruns may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and these projects may not be completed. failure to complete these projects may negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to pay our debt. 20 table of contents all our current and future construction projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from this planned facility. major construction projects of the scope and scale of wynn palace and the wynn resort in massachusetts entail significant risks, including: shortages of, and price increases in, materials or skilled labor; changes to plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, real estate development or construction projects; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environment, health and safety issues, including site accidents; delays or interference from severe weather or natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; unanticipated cost increases; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of wynn palace. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of the subcontractor's work and payment for all of that subcontractor's labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. our wynn palace facility or the wynn resort in massachusetts facility may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for these projects may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete these projects on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. our new projects may not be successful. in addition to the construction and regulatory risks associated with our current and future construction projects, we cannot assure you that the level of consumer demand for our casino resorts or for the type of luxury amenities that we will offer will meet our expectations. the operating results of our new projects may be materially different than the operating results of our current integrated resorts due to, among other reasons, differences in consumer and corporate spending and preferences in new geographic areas, increased competition from other markets or other developments that may be beyond our control. in addition, our new projects may be more sensitive to certain risks, including risks associated with downturns in the economy, than the integrated resorts we currently operate. the demands caused by new developments on our managerial, operational and other resources may impact our operation of our existing results. if any of these issues were to occur, it could adversely affect our prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. 21 table of contents in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities could have a negative effect on our business. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations in the jurisdictions in which our resorts are located. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the nevada gaming commission may require the holder of any debt or securities we or wynn las vegas, llc issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts' securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. the company's articles of incorporation also provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. on february 18, 2012, after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that the okada parties were unsuitable within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze's shares of wynn resorts' common stock. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies . nevada and massachusetts regulatory authorities also have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approvals, approve changes in our operations and levy fines or require forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. complying with gaming laws, regulations and license requirements is costly. any change in the nevada and massachusetts laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures and forfeit assets, and would negatively affect our gaming operations. 22 table of contents wynn macau's operations are subject to unique risks. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau's concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we are subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau's gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. compliance with changing laws and regulations may result in additional expenses and compliance risks. changing laws and regulations are creating uncertainty for gaming companies. these changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. in addition, further regulation of casinos, financial institutions and public companies is possible. this could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. in addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations. win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. the gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. in addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played and the amount of time played. our gaming profits are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security. we rely on information technology and other systems (including those maintained by third-parties with whom we contract to provide data services) to maintain and transmit large volumes of customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information and other personally identifiable information. we also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. the systems and processes we have implemented to protect customers, employees and company information are subject to the ever-changing risk of compromised security. these risks include cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third party vendors. the steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful and our insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations and privacy law is an area that changes often and varies significantly by jurisdiction. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including losses resulting from terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. however, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance 23 table of contents coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain in the future or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain catastrophic losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, if we suffer such a catastrophic loss, we may not be successful in obtaining future insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. furthermore, our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition. our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. most of our customers travel to reach our las vegas and macau properties. acts of terrorism may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to las vegas and macau, including our properties. regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of war or worldwide infectious disease outbreak would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. we conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. in addition, our subsidiaries' debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. we expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. an inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends and distributions would have a significant negative effect on our liquidity. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, wynn macau, wynn palace and encore. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn's prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. 24 table of contents furthermore, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, our ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption after 2015 and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. contamination has been identified at and in the vicinity of our site in everett, massachusetts. the ultimate cost of remediating contaminated sites is difficult to accurately predict and we could exceed our current estimates. while we believe that we have adequate resources to cover the costs of the cleanup, we may be required to conduct additional investigations and remediation with respect to this site. as a result, we also could incur material costs in excess of our estimates as a result of additional cleanup obligations imposed or contamination identified in the future. our proposed expenditures related to environmental matters are not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. however, the environmental laws under which we operate are complicated and often increasingly more stringent, and may be applied retroactively. accordingly, we may be required to make additional expenditures to remain in, or to achieve compliance with, environmental laws in the future. risks associated with our macau operations we depend upon games promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. we may lose the clientele of our games promoters, who generate a significant portion of our gaming revenue. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by games promoters, which we expect to intensify as additional casinos open in macau. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, or lose a significant number of our games promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our games promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. 25 table of contents increased competition for the services of games promoters may require us to pay increased commission rates to games promoters. certain games promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in games promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with games promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to games promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure by the games promoters with whom we work to comply with macau gaming laws and high standards of probity and integrity might affect our reputation and ability to comply with the requirements of our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. the reputations and probity of the games promoters with whom we work are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. we conduct periodic reviews of the probity and compliance programs of our gaming promoters. however, we are not able to control our games promoters' compliance with these high standards of probity and integrity, and our games promoters may violate provisions in their contracts with us designed to ensure such compliance. in addition, if we enter into a new business relationship with a games promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if our games promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. furthermore, if any of our games promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the games promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. the financial resources of our games promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business in macau which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. our games promoters may experience difficulty in attracting patrons. given present market conditions in macau and certain economic and other factors occurring in the region, games promoters may encounter difficulties in attracting patrons to come to macau. further, gaming promoters may experience decreased liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, resulting in decreased gaming volume in macau and at wynn macau. credit already extended by our games promoters to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. this inability to attract sufficient patrons, grant credit and collect amounts due in a timely manner can negatively affect our games promoters' operations, cause games promoters to wind up or liquidate their operations or result in our gaming promoters leaving macau, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement with the macau government expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. we may not be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all and, if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid to us may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the redemption of or failure to extend our concession would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if wynn macau fails to comply with the concession agreement, the macau government can terminate our concession without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; 26 table of contents suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. our macau subsidiaries' indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our macau subsidiaries' debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. in the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our macau subsidiaries' unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in hiring and retaining employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. in addition, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos. competition for these individuals in macau is likely to increase as we open wynn palace, and as other competitors expand their operations. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. despite our coordination with the macau labor and immigration authorities to assure that our labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or obtain required work permits for those employees. if we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in macau could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. our macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. macau's legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. the continued success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions, laws or regulations that might impede wynn macau's operations or ability to repatriate funds. we are currently required to complete wynn palace by may 2017. if we are unable to meet this deadline, we may lose the respective land concession, which could prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession. the company has capitalized approximately $1.8 billion, including the land premium (net of amortization) and $148.4 million in outstanding construction payables, as of december 31, 2014. under the company's land concession for wynn palace, the company is required to complete the development by may 2017. should the company determine that it is unable to complete wynn palace by this deadline, the company would expect to apply for an extension from the macau government. if the company is unable to meet the current deadline and the deadline for the development is not extended, the company could lose its land concession for wynn palace, which would prohibit the company from operating any facilities developed under the land concession. as a result, the company could record a charge for all or some portion of its capitalized construction costs and land premiums (net of amortization). 27 table of contents macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. the smoking control legislation in macau could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in 2014, the macau government approved smoking control legislation, which prohibits smoking in casinos starting on october 6, 2014. the legislation, however, permits casinos to maintain certain limited smoking areas open to vip patrons if such areas are within restricted access areas, comply with certain square footage ratios based on overall gaming area square footage and comply with the conditions set out in the dispatch of the chief executive, dated november 1, 2012, as amended by the dispatch of the chief executive, dated june 3, 2014. recent public announcements by the macau government indicate that the macau government intends to pursue a full smoking ban within all macau casinos. the existing smoking legislation, and any smoking legislation intended to fully ban all smoking in casinos, may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in macau and disrupt the number of patrons visiting or the amount of time visiting patrons spend at our property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau's subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resort complex and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. in october 2009, wynn macau, limited, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited. wynn macau, limited sold through an initial public offering, 1,437,500,000 shares, 27.7% of this subsidiary's common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau's gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our wynn macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau's operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. 28 table of contents such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary's gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau's obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau's concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and the two are often used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are no longer linked to the u.s. dollar, the exchange rate for these currencies may severely fluctuate. the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies may also change. because many of wynn macau's payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau's obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau's gaming operations. risks related to share ownership and stockholder matters our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. as of december 31, 2014, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn own 10,026,708 shares and 9,608,334 shares, respectively, or in the aggregate approximately 19.4%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders' approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. in addition, until february 2012, aruze owned 24,549,222 shares of our outstanding common stock. on february 18, 2012, the company redeemed all of the shares of the company's common stock held by aruze for additional information on the redemption, see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies . under the stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn have agreed to vote the shares of the company's common stock held by them subject to the terms of the stockholders agreement in a manner so as to elect to our board of 29 table of contents directors each of the nominees contained on each and every slate of directors endorsed by mr. wynn, which slate will include, subject to certain exceptions, elaine p. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, exercises significant influence over the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the stockholders agreement requires the written consent of the other party prior to any party selling any shares of the company's common stock that it owns. in june 2012, in connection with the pending litigation between the company and aruze, elaine p. wynn submitted a cross claim against mr. wynn and mr. okada seeking to void the stockholders agreement. certain wynn las vegas, llc indentures provide that if mr. wynn, together with certain related parties, in the aggregate beneficially owns a lesser percentage of the outstanding common stock of the company than is beneficially owned by any other person, a change of control will have occurred. if elaine p. wynn prevails in her cross claim, mr. wynn would not beneficially own or control elaine p. wynn's shares and a change in control may result under the wynn las vegas, llc debt documents. for additional information on the cross claim, see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 8 long-term debt and note 17 commitments and contingencies . in november 2006, the board of directors of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts' common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze from nevada's acquisition of controlling interest statutes. in light of the determination by the board of directors on february 18, 2012 that each of the okada parties is an unsuitable person under the company's articles of incorporation and the redemption and cancellation of aruze's shares of company common stock, our fifth amended and restated bylaws amended these provisions to delete the reference to aruze and its affiliates. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of these bylaws provisions, mr. wynn or his affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting him or them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the company in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the company's stockholders granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. our stock price may be volatile. the trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general united states, china, and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, increased competition, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, changes in applicable laws or regulations, and changes affecting the travel industry. the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2014, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $7.3 billion , which includes a portion of the funds we expect to need for the development and construction of our projects, wynn palace and the wynn resort in massachusetts. we may, however, incur additional indebtedness in connection with the construction of these projects. see item 1 business , construction and development opportunities . in addition, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our wynn macau credit facilities, our wynn america credit facilities and our wynn las vegas, llc indentures in connection with other future potential development plans. on february 18, 2012, we issued a redemption note with a principal amount of approximately $1.94 billion in redemption of all of the shares of wynn resorts common stock held by aruze. for additional information on the redemption and the redemption note, see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies . our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: 30 table of contents failure to meet our payment obligations or other obligations could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, foreclosure upon our assets that serve as collateral or bankruptcy and trigger cross defaults under other agreements; servicing our indebtedness requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and wynn macau and reduces the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital and other cash requirements; the okada parties have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares and we are currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. the outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 commitments and contingencies ; we may experience decreased revenues from our operations due to decreased consumer spending levels and high unemployment, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to satisfy working capital requirements or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; and rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and a minimum earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. for more information on financial covenants we are subject to under our debt facilities, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data , note 8 long-term debt." future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member's interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events outside of our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. if our or our properties' operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants, causing a default under our agreements, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders or holders of our debt taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets or cause all outstanding amounts to be due and payable immediately. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings, supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2014 of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2014 , such rates remain at historic lows. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2014 of 0.17% and 0.24%, respectively were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 6,260 $ 6,260 average interest rate % % % % % 4.8 % 4.8 % variable rate $ $ $ 509 $ 576 $ $ $ 1,085 average interest rate % % 2.0 % 2.0 % % 2.0 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis. changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase (decrease) in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. macau operations we currently have three interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under our wynn macau credit facilities. under two of the swap agreements, we pay a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.73% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of hk$3.95 billion (approximately $509.4 million) incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. these interest rate swaps fix the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.48% to 3.23%. these interest rate swap agreements mature in july 2017. under the third swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.68% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of $243.8 million incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange 63 table of contents for receipts on the same amount at a variable rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.43% to 3.18%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in july 2017. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, the interest rate swaps were recorded as an asset of $5.9 million and $10.3 million , respectively, and included in deposits and other assets. the fair value approximates the amount we would pay or receive if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. we adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. las vegas operations in june 2012, we terminated our only wynn las vegas, llc swap for a payment of $2.4 million. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2014 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ $ $ 753 $ $ $ $ 753 average pay rate % % 0.71 % % % % 0.71 % average receive rate % % 0.60 % % % % 0.60 % we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 96% all of our debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2014 , an assumed 1% change in the variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $3.3 million . foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau's concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau's payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau's obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau's results of 64 table of contents operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. to date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk. approximately 18.7% of our cash balances are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the hong kong dollar. based on our balances at december 31, 2014 , an assumed 1% change in the us dollar/hong kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of approximately $6.1 million . 65 table of contentsrisk factors 16 item 1b unresolved staff comments 31 item 2. properties 32 item 3. legal proceedings 32 item 4. mine safety disclosures 33 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 34 item 6. selected financial data 36 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 36 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 62 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 115 item 9a. controls and procedures 115 item 9b. other information 115 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 116 item 11. executive compensation 116 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 116 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 116 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 116 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 117 signatures 127 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview wynn resorts, limited, ("wynn resorts," or together with its subsidiaries, "we" or the "company"), led by chairman and chief executive officer, stephen a. wynn, is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts (integrated resorts) that integrate hotel accommodations and a wide range of amenities, including fine dining outlets, premium retail offerings, distinctive entertainment theaters and large meeting complexes. wynn resorts currently owns 72 % of wynn macau, limited, which operates an integrated resort in the macau special administrative region of the people's republic of china ("macau"). wynn resorts also owns 100% of and operates an integrated resort in las vegas, nevada. we are currently constructing wynn palace, an integrated resort in the cotai area of macau, which we expect to open in the first half of 2016; however, potential construction delays could push the opening date into the second half of 2016. we have begun site preparation and pre-construction activities for the development and construction of an integrated resort in everett, massachusetts, adjacent to boston. we present the operating results of our two existing integrated resorts in the following two segments: macau operations and las vegas operations. for more information on our segments, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 18 "segment information." wynn resorts, a nevada corporation, was formed in 2002. wynn resorts files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments of such reports with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). any document wynn resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e. washington, d.c. 20549 or at the sec's internet site address at http://www.sec.gov . information related to the operation of the sec's public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com , wynn resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party sec filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. the information found on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. our resorts macau operations we opened wynn macau on september 6, 2006 and opened encore at wynn macau, an expansion of wynn macau, on april 21, 2010. we refer to the integrated wynn macau and encore at wynn macau resort as "wynn macau | encore" or as our "macau operations." we operate wynn macau | encore under a 20-year casino concession agreement granted by the macau government in june 2002. see "regulation and licensing macau" for details on the casino concession agreement. we lease from the macau government an approximately 16-acre parcel of land in downtown macau's inner harbor where wynn macau | encore is located. see "item 2 properties" for details on the land concession agreement. wynn macau | encore features the following as of february 12, 2016: approximately 284,000 square feet of casino space offering 24-hour gaming with 458 table games and 708 slot machines, private gaming salons, sky casinos and a poker pit; two luxury hotel towers with a total of 1,008 guest rooms and suites; casual and fine dining in eight restaurants; approximately 57,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail shopping, including stores and boutiques by bvlgari, cartier, chanel, dior, dunhill, ermenegildo zegna, ferrari, giorgio armani, graff, gucci, hermes, hugo boss, jaegar-lecoultre, loro piana, louis vuitton, miu miu, piaget, prada, richard mille, roger dubuis, rolex, tiffany, vacheron constantin, van cleef &amp; arpels, versace, vertu, and others; approximately 31,000 square feet of space for lounges and meeting facilities; recreation and leisure facilities, including two health clubs, spas, a salon and a pool; and a rotunda show featuring a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling along with gold "prosperity tree" and "dragon of fortune" attractions. 3 table of contents in response to our evaluation of our macau operations and our commitment to creating a unique customer experience, we have made and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to this resort. in february 2015, we completed the renovation of approximately 27,000 square feet of our casino space at wynn macau for new vip gaming rooms. las vegas operations we opened wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005 and opened encore at wynn las vegas, an expansion of wynn las vegas, on december 22, 2008. we refer to the integrated wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas resort as "wynn las vegas | encore" or as our "las vegas operations." wynn las vegas | encore is located at the intersection of the las vegas strip and sands avenue, and occupies approximately 215 acres of land fronting the las vegas strip. in addition, we own approximately 18 acres across sands avenue, a portion of which is utilized for employee parking and an office building, and approximately five acres adjacent to the golf course on which an office building is located. wynn las vegas | encore features the following as of february 12, 2016: approximately 186,000 square feet of casino space, offering 24-hour gaming with 232 table games and 1,866 slot machines, private gaming salons, a sky casino, a poker room, and a race and sports book; two luxury hotel towers with a total of 4,748 guest rooms, suites and villas; 34 food and beverage outlets featuring signature chefs; approximately 99,000 square feet of high-end, brand-name retail shopping, including stores and boutiques by alexander mcqueen, brioni, cartier, chanel, chlo , chopard, dior, givenchy, graff, hermes, iwc schaffhausen, jaeger-lecoultre, loro piana, louis vuitton, moncler, nicholas kirkwood, piaget, prada, rolex, vertu and others; approximately 290,000 square feet of meeting and convention space; three nightclubs and a beach club; a specially designed theater presenting "le r ve-the dream," a water-based theatrical production and a theater presenting "steve wynn's showstoppers," a broadway-style entertainment production; and recreation and leisure facilities, including an 18-hole golf course, swimming pools, private cabanas, two full service spas and salons, and a wedding chapel. in response to our evaluation of our las vegas operations and our commitment to creating a unique customer experience, we have made and expect to continue to make enhancements and refinements to this resort. in october 2015, we closed the ferrari and maserati automobile dealership inside wynn las vegas. we have obtained the relevant approvals to transform the dealership and adjacent space into additional retail space. in november 2015, we completed the remodel of all guest rooms in our encore hotel tower, completed the remodel of one of our restaurants and began the re-branding of one of our night clubs, which is scheduled for completion in april 2016. in december 2015, we opened a 5,000 square-foot luxury lounge for gaming and entertainment in encore. construction and development opportunities we are currently constructing wynn palace, an integrated resort featuring a 1,700 room hotel, a performance lake, and a wide range of amenities, including meeting, retail, food and beverage, and gaming space, in the cotai area of macau. the total project budget, including construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, land costs and financing fees, is $4.1 billion . as of december 31, 2015 , we have invested $3.5 billion in the project. in september 2011, palo real estate company limited ("palo") and wynn resorts (macau), s.a. ("wynn macau sa"), each an indirect subsidiary of wynn macau, limited, formally accepted the terms and conditions of a land concession contract from the macau government for approximately 51 acres of land in the cotai area of macau. on may 2, 2012, the land concession contract was gazetted by the government of macau evidencing the final step in the granting of the land concession. the initial term of the cotai land concession contract is 25 years from may 2, 2012, and it may be renewed with government approval for successive periods. the total land premium payable, including interest as required by the land concession contract, is $193.4 million. an initial payment of $62.5 million was paid in december 2011, with eight additional semi-annual payments of approximately $16.4 million each (including interest at 5%), which began in november 2012. as of december 31, 2015 , the remaining $16.0 million obligation was recorded as a current liability. we will be required to make 4 table of contents annual lease payments of $0.8 million during the resort construction period and annual lease payments of approximately $1.1 million once the development is completed. on july 29, 2013, wynn macau sa and palo executed a guaranteed maximum price construction ("gmp") contract with leighton contractors (asia) limited, acting as the general contractor. the general contractor is obligated to substantially complete the project in the first half of 2016 for a guaranteed maximum price of hk $20.6 billion (approximately $2.7 billion ). on november 18, 2015, we were notified by the general contractor that the wynn palace project in the cotai area of macau will not be ready to open by the projected early completion date of march 25, 2016. the general contractor has expressed its commitment to the completion of the project by the required date but has advised us that they dispute our assessment of liquidated damages. we continue to expect to open the property in the first half of 2016; however, potential construction delays could push the opening date into the second half of 2016. both the contract time and guaranteed maximum price are subject to further adjustment under certain specified conditions. the performance of the general contractor is backed by a full completion guarantee given by cimic group limited (formerly leighton holdings limited), the parent company of the general contractor, as well as a performance bond for 5% of the guaranteed maximum price. in november 2014, we were awarded a gaming license to develop and construct an integrated resort in everett, massachusetts, adjacent to boston. this was the only license granted in the greater boston region. the resort will be located on a 33-acre site along the mystic river. the resort will contain a hotel, a waterfront boardwalk, meeting space, a casino, a spa, retail offerings and food and beverage outlets. we have begun site remediation, site preparation and pre-construction activities. we continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in the united states, and worldwide. our strategy we believe that wynn resorts is the world's preeminent designer, developer, and operator of integrated resorts. the company's integrated resort business model, pioneered by chairman and chief executive officer stephen a. wynn, integrates luxury hotel rooms, high-end retail, an array of dining and entertainment options, meeting space, and gaming, all supported by superior levels of customer service. given his extensive design and operational experience across numerous gaming jurisdictions, we believe that mr. wynn's involvement with our resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. wynn resorts and its management team have a demonstrated track record in developing and operating successful integrated resort projects around the world. the senior executive team has an average of over 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. in addition, we have a 125-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience across all major construction disciplines. we aim to build appropriately scaled integrated resorts that attract a wide range of customer segments (including premium international customers), generate strong financial results, and complement their surrounding market areas. we design and continually refresh our integrated resorts to create unique customer experiences across a wide range of gaming and non-gaming amenities. our business is dependent upon repeat visitation from our guests; we believe superior customer experience and service is the best marketing strategy to attract and retain our customers. we emphasize human resources and staff training to ensure our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. our integrated resorts are conceptualized, designed, built and operated in major metropolitan markets to service all customers with an emphasis on providing superior levels of premium customer service. in las vegas and macau, we have been successful in attracting not only a wide range of domestic guests, but also extending our customer market areas into international markets. we leverage our international marketing team across branch offices (hong kong sar, singapore, japan, taiwan and vancouver, canada) located in five countries to attract international customers. reflecting our commitment to customer service globally, the company has received the following recognition: collectively, wynn resorts earned more five-star awards than any other independent hotel company in the world in the official 2016 forbes travel guide star rating list. wynn macau | encore continues to be the only resort in the world with seven five-star awards. wynn resorts owns two of the largest forbes five-star hotels in the united states: wynn tower suites (las vegas) and encore tower suites (las vegas). 5 table of contents wynn resorts was once again honored as the highest ranking casino resort on fortune magazine's 2016 world's most admired companies list in the hotel, casino and resort category. we plan to continue to seek out new opportunities to develop and operate integrated resorts, including related businesses, around the world. overall, we believe wynn resorts has a demonstrated track record of developing integrated resorts that stimulate city- and region-wide economic activity, which we believe includes: attracting a wide range of customers to the region, including high-net-worth international tourists; driving international tourism for the region; lifting average hotel room rates in the region; extending the average length of stay per visitor; complementing existing convention and meeting business with 5-star accommodations and appropriately scaled meeting amenities; elevating service levels with the execution of five-star customer service; and helping stimulate city-wide investment and employment. market and competition the casino resort industry is highly competitive. both our macau operations and our las vegas operations compete with other high-quality casino resorts. resorts located on or near our properties compete on the basis of the range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. we seek to differentiate our macau and las vegas integrated resorts from other major resorts by delivering superior design and customer service. macau macau is governed as a special administrative region of china and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and approximately one hour away via ferry from, hong kong. macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 50 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland china, with two neighboring islands, taipa and coloane, between which the cotai area is located. in 2002, the government of macau ended a 40-year monopoly on the conduct of gaming operations by conducting a competitive process that resulted in the issuance of gaming concessions to three concessionaires (including wynn macau sa), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of macau, to each grant one subconcession, resulting in a total of six gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. in addition to wynn macau sa, each of sociedade de jogos de macau ("sjm") and galaxy entertainment group limited are primary concessionaires with sands china ltd., melco crown and mgm china holdings limited operating under subconcessions. there is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire or subconcessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. currently, there are 36 operating casinos in macau. we believe that macau is located in one of the world's largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. according to macau statistical information, casinos in macau, the largest gaming market in the world, generated approximately $29 billion in gaming revenue in 2015. since the introduction of new casinos starting in 2004, the macau market has experienced a significant increase in annual gaming revenue from the $2.9 billion generated in 2002; however, the macau market has recently experienced significant year-over-year declines, including a 34.3% decline in 2015. macau's gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. tourist arrivals in 2015 were 30.7 million, compared to 31.5 million in 2014. the macau market has also experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last several years. as of december 31, 2015, there were 32,200 hotel rooms, 5,957 table games and 14,578 slot machines in macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms, 2,762 table games and 6,546 slot machines as of december 31, 2006. gaming customers traveling to macau have typically come from nearby destinations in asia, including hong kong, mainland china, taiwan, south korea and malaysia. according to the macau statistics and census service monthly bulletin of statistics, approximately 90% of the tourists who visited macau in 2015 came from hong kong, mainland china and taiwan. travel to macau by citizens of mainland china requires a visa. chinese government officials have, on occasion, exercised their authority to adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future. wynn macau faces competition primarily from the 35 other casinos located throughout macau plus casinos located throughout the world, including singapore, australia, the philippines, las vegas and cruise ships in asia that offer gaming. 6 table of contents las vegas las vegas is the largest gaming market in the united states. although las vegas strip gaming revenues remained relatively flat at $6.3 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015, the economic environment in the gaming and hotel markets in las vegas continued to improve with increased visitation and hotel room demand. during 2015, the average daily room rate increased 2.7% and visitation increased 2.9% to 42.3 million visitors compared to 2014. in addition, las vegas strip resorts experienced 2015 year-over-year increases of 0.6% and 3.3% in occupancy and revenue per available room, respectively. our las vegas operations are located on the las vegas strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in las vegas. our las vegas operations also compete, to some extent, with other casino resorts throughout the united states and elsewhere in the world. geographic data geographic data are reported in item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 18 "segment information." additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." regulation and licensing macau general. as a casino concessionaire, wynn macau sa, an indirect 72% owned subsidiary of the company, is subject to the regulatory control of the government of macau. the government has adopted laws and administrative regulations governing the operation of casinos in macau. only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the macau government and each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the macau government which, together with the law and administrative regulations, form the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. under the law and administrative regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire's equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. the same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the macau government. concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the macau government and are ineffective without government approval. each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. the appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the macau government. all contracts placing the management of a concessionaire's casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the macau government. concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. concessionaires are obligated to withhold applicable taxes, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to gaming promoters. the withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. concession agreement. the concession agreement between wynn macau sa and the macau government required wynn macau sa to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of december 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion macau patacas (approximately $500.0 million) in macau-related projects by june 2009. these obligations were satisfied upon the opening of wynn macau in 2006. wynn macau sa was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700.0 million macau pataca (approximately $87.0 million) bank guarantee from banco national ultramarino, s.a. ("bnu") that was effective until march 31, 2007. the amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million macau patacas (approximately $37.0 million) for the period from april 1, 7 table of contents 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. this guarantee, which is for the benefit of the macau government, assures wynn macau sa's performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. wynn macau sa is obligated, upon demand by bnu, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the macau government. bnu is currently paid an annual fee by wynn macau sa for the guarantee of approximately 2.3 million patacas (approximately $0.3 million). the government of macau may redeem the concession beginning on june 24, 2017, and in such event wynn macau sa will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the remaining years before expiration of the concession. the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if wynn macau sa fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau sa: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, wynn macau sa will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau sa will be transferred to the government without compensation. in addition, the government of macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case wynn macau sa would be entitled to reasonable compensation. the government of macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. during any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. the government of macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. gaming promoters. a gaming promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person or entity who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. macau law provides that gaming promoters must be licensed by the macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. for a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a gaming promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. the term of a gaming promoter's license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. the gaming inspection and coordination bureau ("dicj") implemented certain instructions in 2009, which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to, and by, gaming promoters. such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on gaming promoters. under macau law, licensed gaming promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. these contractors are subject to approval of the macau government. changes in the management structure of business entity gaming promoters licensees must be reported to the macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. to conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the macau government. macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their gaming promoters for the gaming activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaire's casinos, and for their compliance 8 table of contents with applicable laws and regulations. concessionaires must submit annual lists of their gaming promoters, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. the macau government may designate a maximum number of gaming promoters and specify the number of gaming promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their gaming promoters' representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity. in late 2015, the macau government implemented enhanced accounting and financial procedures and requirements to be followed by gaming promoters. these enhanced procedures require gaming promoters to disclose more detailed financial and accounting information to the dicj, including the disclosure of certain financial information on a monthly basis. gaming promoters also must identify and nominate senior financial or accounting representatives to be available to the dicj for any follow-up matters the bureau may require. nevada introduction. the ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the state of nevada are subject to the nevada gaming control act and the regulations made thereunder, as well as to various local ordinances. our las vegas operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the nevada gaming commission, the nevada gaming control board and the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which we refer to herein collectively as the "nevada gaming authorities." policy concerns of gaming laws. the laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the nevada gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. such public policy concerns include, among other things: preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the nevada gaming authorities; preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our las vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our subsidiary, wynn las vegas, llc, the owner and operator of our las vegas operations, has been approved by the nevada gaming authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool, pari-mutuel wagering and the operation of gaming salons. these gaming licenses are not transferable. company registration requirements. wynn resorts was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn resorts holdings, llc ("wynn resorts holdings"), a wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the nevada gaming control act. wynn resorts holdings was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn america, llc ("wynn america") and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. wynn america was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn las vegas holdings, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. wynn las vegas holdings, llc was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. in addition to being licensed, wynn las vegas, llc, as an issuer of debt securities registered with the sec, also qualified as a registered company. wynn las vegas capital corp., a co-issuer of the debt securities, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source. periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the nevada gaming commission and provide any other information that the nevada gaming commission may require. substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the nevada gaming commission. individual licensing requirements. no person may become a more than 5% stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the nevada gaming authorities. the nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material 9 table of contents relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the nevada gaming authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the nevada gaming authorities. all applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. however, the nevada gaming authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason which they deem appropriate. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the nevada gaming authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. if the nevada gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the nevada gaming commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in nevada. redemption of securities owned by an unsuitable person. the company's articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by such person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. if wynn resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. if the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the nasdaq global select market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and ask prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. wynn resorts' right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as the board of directors of wynn resorts elects, and as set forth in the company's articles of incorporation. based on the board of directors' finding of "unsuitability," on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts redeemed and canceled aruze usa, inc.'s ("aruze") 24,549,222 shares of wynn resorts' common stock. pursuant to its articles of incorporation, wynn resorts issued the redemption price promissory note (the "redemption note") to aruze in redemption of the shares. aruze, universal entertainment corporation and mr. kazuo okada (collectively, the "okada parties") have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares and the company is currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. see item 1a "risk factors" and item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." consequences of violating gaming laws. if the nevada gaming commission determines that we have violated the nevada gaming control act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the nevada gaming control act, or of the regulations of the nevada gaming commission, at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. further, the nevada gaming commission could appoint a supervisor to operate our las vegas operations and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor's appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the state of nevada. limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. requirements for voting or nonvoting securities holders. regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of wynn resorts' voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person's suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of wynn resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information, including a list of its beneficial owners. the applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. 10 table of contents the nevada gaming control act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the nevada gaming commission. the nevada gaming control act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company's voting securities to apply to the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the chairman of the nevada gaming control board mails the written notice requiring such filing. however, an "institutional investor," as defined in the nevada gaming control act, which beneficially owns more than 10% but not more than 11% of a registered company's voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by the registered company may not be required to file such an application. further, an institutional investor which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company's voting securities may apply to the nevada gaming commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company's voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by the registered company. an institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the nevada gaming commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company's voting securities for investment purposes only. activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and other activities that the nevada gaming commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. the articles of incorporation of wynn resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions. wynn resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in nevada which may be examined by the nevada gaming authorities at any time. if any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the nevada gaming authorities. a failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. we are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of wynn resorts' voting securities. the nevada gaming commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the nevada gaming control act. the certificates representing shares of wynn resorts' common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws. consequences of being found unsuitable. any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the nevada gaming commission or by the chairman of the nevada gaming control board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. the same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the nevada gaming commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. we will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to wynn resorts; pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person's voting securities, including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. gaming laws relating to debt securities ownership. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other securities of the registered company if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the nevada gaming 11 table of contents commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the securities, then under the nevada gaming control act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission, it: pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. approval of public offerings. wynn resorts and wynn las vegas, llc may not make a public offering (debt or equity) without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. on march 21, 2013, the nevada gaming commission granted us and wynn las vegas, llc prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of three years (the "shelf approval"). we are currently in the process of obtaining a renewal for approval from the nevada gaming commission. the shelf approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us that is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the chairman of the nevada gaming control board. the shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the nevada gaming authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. any representation to the contrary is unlawful. approval of changes in control. a registered company must obtain the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company. entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the nevada gaming control board and nevada gaming commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. the nevada gaming commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. approval of defensive tactics. the nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. the nevada gaming commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon nevada's gaming industry and to further nevada's policy in order to: assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies; preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. approvals may be required from the nevada gaming commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. the nevada gaming control act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company's board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. fees and taxes. license fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the state of nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries' respective operations are conducted. depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or the number of table games operated. a live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges where live entertainment is furnished. 12 table of contents foreign gaming investigations. any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, "licensees"), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of nevada, is required to deposit with the nevada gaming control board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the nevada gaming control board of the licensee's or registrant's participation in such foreign gaming. the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the nevada gaming control act. a licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if it: knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of nevada; engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the state of nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. the conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at wynn las vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which has granted wynn las vegas, llc licenses for such purposes. in addition to approving wynn las vegas, llc, the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. clark county gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. the county has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. massachusetts introduction. on november 22, 2011, massachusetts governor deval patrick signed chapter 194 of the acts of 2011 "an act establishing expanded gaming in the commonwealth," legislation (the "gaming act") designed to provide significant benefits to the commonwealth of massachusetts by advancing job creation and economic development. the gaming act allows for up to three destination resort casinos located in three geographically diverse regions across the commonwealth and a single slots facility, not pegged to any particular region. the licensing fee for each resort casino is $85.0 million and requires a capital investment, to include a hotel facility, of at least $500.0 million. the commonwealth will receive 25% of gross gaming revenues. the gaming act also called for the creation of a five-member independent body, the massachusetts gaming commission (the "mgc"), to oversee the implementation and licensing process, as well as regulate the operation of gaming facilities. the mgc is in the process of promulgating detailed regulations to govern the operations of the resort casinos and the slot parlor facility. the slot facility, located in plainville, ma, opened in june 2015. owner and operator licensing requirements. our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, wynn ma, llc, was the "applicant" under the mgc's phase 1 regulations and was determined to be suitable for the purpose of holding a category 1 gaming license. on september 17, 2014, the mgc designated wynn ma, llc the award winner of the greater boston (region a) gaming license. on november 7, 2014, the gaming license awarded to us became effective. company registration requirements. in addition, pursuant to the phase 1 regulations, the following entities and persons are deemed to be "qualifiers" subject to investigation: all members, transferees of a member's interest, directors and managers of the licensee and, in the judgment of the mgc, each lender, each holder of indebtedness, each underwriter, each close associate, each executive and each agent. as a result, wynn resorts, its key employees and its directors were therefore subject to a suitability investigation. wynn resorts and all individual qualifiers were found suitable by the mgc. as our progress in massachusetts continues, additional entities and key employees may be required to file applications with the mgc and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the mgc. following wynn america, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, limited, entering into a senior secured credit facility in november 2014, the mgc has requested additional applications, which are pending. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a 13 table of contents finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the mgc. if the mgc were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the mgc may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review. consequences of violating gaming laws. if the mgc determines that we have violated the gaming act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, the mgc set forth certain conditions in our gaming license. any violation of the gaming act, its regulations or any of our license conditions resulting in a limitation, conditioning or suspension of our gaming license would have a significant negative effect on our massachusetts gaming operations. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. pursuant to the gaming act, the mgc may grant a gaming beverage license for the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages for a gaming establishment. the division of gaming liquor enforcement of the alcoholic beverage control commission will have the authority to enforce, regulate and control the distribution of alcoholic beverages in a gaming establishment. the mgc may revoke, suspend, refuse to renew or refuse to transfer a gaming beverage license for violations of the gaming act that pertain to the sale and distribution of alcohol consumed on the premises and the regulations adopted by the mgc. the mgc is in the process of adopting regulations for the issuance of gaming beverage licenses. these regulations and any changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our future massachusetts gaming operations and results of operations. other regulations in addition to gaming regulations, we are subject to extensive local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. these include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employment and immigration, currency and other transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, marketing and advertising, lending, debt collection, privacy, telemarketing, money laundering, laws and regulations administered by the office of foreign assets control, and anti-bribery laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our business and operating results. seasonality we may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month; however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. employees as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately 20,800 total employees (including approximately 8,900 in macau and 11,900 in las vegas). our ten-year collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and bartenders union, which covers approximately 5,590 employees at our las vegas operations, was set to expire in july 2015. we have signed an extension of the agreement and are currently negotiating a new agreement. in november 2010, we entered into a ten-year collective bargaining agreement with the transportation workers union, which covers 444 table games dealers at our las vegas operations. certain other unions may seek to organize the workers of our resorts. intellectual property among our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name "wynn." wynn resorts has registered with the u.s. patent and trademark office ("pto") a variety of the wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries, including in macau, china, singapore, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. 14 table of contents we recognize that our intellectual property assets, including the word and logo version of "wynn," are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in relevant jurisdictions. we have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world. on august 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with mr. wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the "wynn" surname and mr. wynn's persona in connection with our casino resorts. under a surname rights agreement, mr. wynn has acknowledged our exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide right to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the "wynn" surname for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. under a rights of publicity license, mr. wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until october 24, 2017. we have also registered various domain names with various domain registrars around the world. our domain registrations extend to various foreign countries such as ".com.cn" and ".com.hk." we pursue domain related infringement on a case by case basis depending on the infringing domain in question. the information found on these websites is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. for more information regarding the company's intellectual property matters see item 1a "risk factors". forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k based upon the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, information about our business strategy, development activities, competition and possible or assumed future results of operations, throughout this report and are often preceded by, followed by or include the words "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "plan," "continue" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties in item 1a "risk factors" and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec, such as: our dependence on stephen a. wynn; general global political and economic conditions, particularly in china, which may impact levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending; construction risks (including disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; construction, equipment or staffing problems; shortages of materials or skilled labor; environment, health and safety issues; and unanticipated cost increases); factors affecting the development and success of new gaming and resort properties (including limited labor resources in macau and government labor and gaming policies, unexpected cost increases, environmental regulation and our ability to secure federal, state and local permits and approvals necessary for our construction projects); changes in the valuation of the promissory note we issued in connection with the redemption of mr. okada's shares; restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland china to macau; potential violations of law by mr. kazuo okada, a former shareholder of ours; pending or future legal proceedings, regulatory or enforcement actions or probity investigations; any violations by us of the anti-money laundering laws or foreign corrupt practices act; competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors, including new development and construction activities of competitors; our dependence on a limited number of resorts and locations for all of our cash flow; our relationships with macau gaming promoters; our ability to maintain our customer relationships and collect and enforce gaming receivables; extensive regulation of our business (including the chinese government's ongoing anti-corruption campaign) and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations; our ability to maintain our gaming licenses and concessions; 15 table of contents changes in gaming laws or regulations; changes in federal, foreign, or state tax laws or the administration of such laws; cybersecurity risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security; our current and future insurance coverage levels; conditions precedent to funding under our credit facilities; continued compliance with all provisions in our debt agreements; leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates); the impact on the travel and leisure industry from factors such as an outbreak of an infectious disease, extreme weather patterns or natural disasters, military conflicts and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks; our subsidiaries' ability to pay us dividends and distributions; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; doing business in foreign locations such as macau; legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions; and changes in exchange rates. further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the sec. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to us at the time this statement is made. we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, regarding matters which could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our business the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and reputation of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. mr. wynn's employment agreement expires in october 2022. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with wynn resorts. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. visitation to macau may continue to decline due to economic disruptions in mainland china, restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china and the anti-corruption campaign. a significant number of our gaming customers at wynn macau | encore come from mainland china. continued economic disruption, contraction and uncertainty in china could further impact the number of patrons visiting our macau operations or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, policies adopted from time to time by the chinese government, including any travel restrictions imposed by china on its citizens such as restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland china for travel to macau, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. it is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented in 2009 restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens to macau and hong kong, will be put in place and travel policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. furthermore, the chinese government's ongoing anti-corruption campaign has influenced the behavior of chinese consumers and their spending patterns both domestically and abroad. the campaign has specifically led to tighter monetary transfer regulations, including real time monitoring of certain financial channels, which has disrupted and may continue to impact the number of visitors and the amount of money they bring from mainland china to macau. the overall effect of the campaign and monetary transfer restrictions may continue to impact or result in an even greater decline in visitations and may continue to negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. 16 table of contents our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the global economy. consumer demand for casino/hotel resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the global economy, which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general global economic conditions, high unemployment, weakness in housing or oil markets, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the global economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism have in the past and could in the future reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. also, consumer demographics and preferences may evolve over time, which, for example, has resulted in recent growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and react to those trends and any failure to do so may negatively impact our operating results. all our current and future construction projects will be subject to significant development and construction risks, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from this planned facility. major construction projects of the scope and scale of wynn palace and the wynn resort in massachusetts entail significant risks, including: shortages of, and price increases in, materials or skilled labor; changes to plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, real estate development or construction projects; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environment, health and safety issues, including site accidents; delays or interference from severe weather or natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; unanticipated cost increases; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of wynn palace and/or the wynn resort in massachusetts. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of the subcontractor's work and payment for all of that subcontractor's labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. our wynn palace facility or the wynn resort in massachusetts facility may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for these projects may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete these projects on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. on november 18, 2015, we were notified by the general contractor of wynn palace that the facility will not be ready to open by the projected early completion date of march 25, 2016. the general contractor has expressed its commitment to the completion of the project by the required date but has advised us that they dispute our assessment of liquidated damages. 17 table of contents our new projects may not be successful. in addition to the construction and regulatory risks associated with our current and future construction projects, we cannot assure you that the level of consumer demand for our casino resorts or for the type of luxury amenities that we will offer will meet our expectations. the operating results of our new projects may be materially different than the operating results of our current integrated resorts due to, among other reasons, differences in consumer and corporate spending and preferences in new geographic areas, increased competition from other markets or other developments that may be beyond our control. in addition, our new projects may be more sensitive to certain risks, including risks associated with downturns in the economy, than the integrated resorts we currently operate. the demands imposed by new developments on our managerial, operational and other resources may impact our operation of our existing resorts. if any of these issues were to occur, it could adversely affect our prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. mr. okada and his affiliates have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares. an adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the related litigation could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business. on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts' gaming compliance committee received an independent report by freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp (the "freeh report") detailing a pattern of misconduct by the okada parties. after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that each of the okada parties was "unsuitable" within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze's shares of wynn resorts' common stock. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts filed a complaint in the eighth judicial district court, clark county, nevada against the okada parties (as amended, the "complaint"), alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims (the "redemption action") arising from the activities addressed in the freeh report. the company is seeking compensatory and special damages as well as a declaration that it acted lawfully and in full compliance with its articles of incorporation, bylaws and other governing documents in redeeming and canceling the shares of aruze. on march 12, 2012, the okada parties filed an answer denying the claims and a counterclaim (as amended, the "counterclaim") against the company, each of the members of the company's board of directors (other than mr. okada) and wynn resorts' general counsel (collectively, the "wynn parties"), seeking, among other things a declaration that the redemption of aruze's shares was void, an injunction restoring aruze's share ownership, damages in an unspecified amount and rescission of the amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of january 6, 2010, by and among aruze, stephen a. wynn, and elaine p. wynn (the "stockholders agreement"). in connection with the redemption action and counterclaim (1) various okada parties filed a complaint in the tokyo district court against the company, all members of the board of directors (other than mr. okada) and the company's general counsel alleging that the press release issued by the company in connection with the redemption action has damaged their social evaluation and credibility and seeking damages and legal fees, (2) four federal derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors, (3) two state derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors (4) regulatory inquiries and investigations were initiated against the company, and (5) the okada parties filed a complaint in the court of first instance of macau (against wynn macau sa and certain individuals who are or were directors of wynn macau sa and/or wynn macau, limited. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies," for a full description of these matters and status as of the date of this report. the company is vigorously pursuing its claims against the okada parties, and together with the other counter-defendants, vigorously defending against the counterclaim and other actions asserted against them. however, as with all litigation, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties, including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. potential violations of law by mr. okada (former director and formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and his affiliates could have adverse consequences to the company. the freeh reported detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and certain of his affiliates. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." the company has provided the freeh report to applicable regulators and has been cooperating with related investigations of such regulators. the conduct of mr. okada and his affiliates and the outcome of any resulting regulatory findings could have adverse consequences to the company. a finding by regulatory authorities that mr. okada violated the fcpa on company property and/or otherwise involved the company in criminal or civil violations could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the company. relatedly, regulators have and may pursue separate investigations into the company's compliance with applicable laws in connection with the okada matter, as discussed in item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 18 table of contents "commitments and contingencies." while the company believes that it is in full compliance with all applicable laws, any such investigations could result in actions by regulators against the company, which could negatively affect the company's financial condition or results of operations. change in valuation of our redemption price promissory note could have a negative impact on our financial results. we record the redemption note at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair value of the redemption note was $ 1.88 billion and $1.94 billion , respectively. in determining this fair value, we estimated the redemption note's present value using discounted cash flows with a probability-weighted expected return for redemption assumptions and a discount rate, which included time value and non-performance risk adjustments commensurate with the risk of the redemption note. considerations for the redemption assumptions included the stated maturity of the redemption note, uncertainty of the related cash flows as well as potential effects of the following: uncertainties surrounding the potential outcome and timing of pending litigation with the okada parties (see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies"); the outcome of on-going investigations of aruze by the united states attorney's office, the u.s. department of justice and the nevada gaming control board; and other potential legal and regulatory actions. in addition, in the furtherance of various future business objectives, we considered our ability, at our sole option, to prepay the redemption note at any time in accordance with its terms without penalty. accordingly, we reasonably determined that the estimated life of the redemption note could be less than the contractual life of the redemption note. in determination of the appropriate discount rate to be used in the estimated present value, the redemption note's subordinated position and credit risk relative to all other debt in our capital structure and credit ratings associated with our traded debt were considered. observable inputs for the risk free rate based on federal reserve rates for u.s. treasury securities and credit risk spread based on a yield curve index of similarly rated debt was used. a change in any of the assumptions discussed above could result in a change in the fair value of this redemption note and significantly impact our financial results. ongoing litigation and other disputes with mr. okada and certain of his affiliates could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny of regulators. there has been widespread publicity of the findings in the freeh report of prima facie violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates, the board of director's unsuitability finding, the redemption of shares and related litigation. the actions, litigation, and publicity could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. the disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company's gaming licenses, and possibly have a negative impact on the company's ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. any violation of applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations or the foreign corrupt practices act could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. recently, u.s. governmental authorities have evidenced an increased focus on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. from time to time, the company receives governmental and regulatory inquiries about compliance with such laws and regulations. the company cooperates with all such inquiries. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. further, we have operations, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers, outside of the united states. we are therefore subject to regulations imposed by the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect such laws and regulations. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or 19 table of contents circumventing our policies and the law. if we or our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. mr. okada failed to comply with internal training in these matters and failed to return to wynn resorts an executed acknowledgment agreeing to comply with the wynn resorts code of business conduct and ethics. on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts' filed a complaint in nevada state court against mr. okada and other entities alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the fcpa. for information on such complaint, the freeh report, which detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates, and the redemption aruze's shares, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition, which may increase in the future. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. our macau operations face intense competition with approximately 36 casinos currently operating in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three subconcessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires have opened additional facilities in the cotai area of macau during 2015 or expect to open in 2016 and 2017. these cotai facilities are expected to increase total hotel room inventory by approximately 25.5% from the current inventory and significantly increase other gaming and non-gaming offerings in macau. our macau resort complex also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as resorts world sentosa and marina bay sands in singapore and resorts world genting, located outside kuala lumpur, malaysia. we also face competition from casinos in the philippines, such as solaire resort and casino and city of dreams manila. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries are successful, we will face additional regional competition. in las vegas, we compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas | encore also competes with other casino/hotel facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from our las vegas operations. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are currently entirely dependent upon our macau operations and las vegas operations for all of our operating cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; a decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts; and the outbreak of infectious diseases. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. 20 table of contents we could encounter substantial cost increases higher than expected in the development of our projects. we are currently constructing wynn palace, in the cotai area of macau, and in development of a wynn resort in massachusetts. the total project budget for wynn palace, including construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, land costs and financing fees, is $4.1 billion . the projected development costs for wynn palace reflect our best estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. contingencies that have been set aside by us to cover cost overruns may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, or if we are not able to recover damages for these delays and contingencies, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and these projects may not be completed. failure to complete these projects may negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to pay our debt. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. the casino credit we extend is generally unsecured and due on demand. we will extend casino credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. wynn las vegas | encore. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a "marker," are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau | encore. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. 21 table of contents we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities could have a negative effect on our business. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations in the jurisdictions in which our resorts are located. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the nevada gaming commission may require the holder of any debt or securities we or wynn las vegas, llc issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts' securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. the company's articles of incorporation also provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. on february 18, 2012, after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that the okada parties were "unsuitable" within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze's shares of wynn resorts' common stock. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." nevada and massachusetts regulatory authorities also have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approvals, approve changes in our operations and levy fines or require forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. complying with gaming laws, regulations and license requirements is costly. any change in the nevada and massachusetts laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures and forfeit assets, and would negatively affect our gaming operations. wynn macau's operations are subject to unique risks. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau's concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we are subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau's gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. compliance with changing laws and regulations may result in additional expenses and compliance risks. changing laws and regulations are creating uncertainty for gaming companies. these changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. in addition, further regulation of casinos, financial institutions and public companies is possible. this could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. in addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations. win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. the gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. in addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played, the amount of time played and undiscovered acts of fraud or cheating. our gross gaming revenues are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. 22 table of contents our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security. we rely on information technology and other systems (including those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services) to maintain and transmit large volumes of customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information and other personally identifiable information. we also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. the systems and processes we have implemented to protect customers, employees and company information are subject to the ever-changing risk of compromised security. these risks include cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third-party vendors. the steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful and our insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations and privacy law is an area that changes often and varies significantly by jurisdiction. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. acts or the threat of acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. most of our customers travel to reach our las vegas and macau properties. acts of terrorism or concerns over the possibility of such acts may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to las vegas and macau, including our properties. regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of war or worldwide infectious disease outbreak would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. we conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. in addition, our subsidiaries' debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. we expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. an inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends and distributions would have a significant negative effect on our liquidity. 23 table of contents if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of "wynn," are among our most valuable assets. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include "wynn resorts," "wynn design and development," "wynn las vegas," "wynn macau," "wynn palace" and "encore." some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname "wynn." as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired "secondary meaning." to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn's prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. furthermore, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including losses resulting from terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. however, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain in the future or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain catastrophic losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, if we suffer such a catastrophic loss, we may not be successful in obtaining future insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. furthermore, our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, our ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. 24 table of contents because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. contamination has been identified at and in the vicinity of our site in everett, massachusetts. the ultimate cost of remediating contaminated sites is difficult to accurately predict and we could exceed our current estimates. while we believe that we have adequate resources to cover the costs of the cleanup, we may be required to conduct additional investigations and remediation with respect to this site. as a result, we also could incur material costs in excess of our estimates as a result of additional cleanup obligations imposed or contamination identified in the future. our proposed expenditures related to environmental matters are not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. however, the environmental laws under which we operate are complicated and often increasingly more stringent, and may be applied retroactively. accordingly, we may be required to make additional expenditures to remain in, or to achieve compliance with, environmental laws in the future. risks associated with our macau operations we depend upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. we may lose the clientele of our gaming promoters, who generate a significant portion of our gaming revenue. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by gaming promoters, which we expect to intensify as additional casinos open in macau. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, or lose a significant number of our gaming promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. the financial resources of our gaming promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business in macau which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. our gaming promoters may experience difficulty in attracting patrons. given present market conditions in macau and certain economic and other factors occurring in the region, gaming promoters are encountering difficulties in attracting patrons to come to macau. further, gaming promoters are experiencing decreased liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, resulting in decreased gaming volume in macau and at wynn macau. credit already extended by our gaming promoters to their patrons has become difficult for them to collect. the inability to attract sufficient patrons, grant credit and collect amounts due in a timely manner are negatively affecting our gaming promoters' operations, causing gaming promoters to wind up or liquidate their operations or resulting in some of our gaming promoters leaving macau. current and any future difficulties could adverse impact our results of operations. increased competition for the services of gaming promoters may require us to pay increased commission rates to gaming promoters. certain gaming promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in gaming promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including 25 table of contents higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with gaming promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to gaming promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure by the gaming promoters with whom we work to comply with macau gaming laws and high standards of probity and integrity might affect our reputation and ability to comply with the requirements of our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. the reputations and probity of the gaming promoters with whom we work are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. we conduct periodic reviews of the probity and compliance programs of our gaming promoters. however, we are not able to control our gaming promoters' compliance with these high standards of probity and integrity, and our gaming promoters may violate provisions in their contracts with us designed to ensure such compliance. in addition, if we enter into a new business relationship with a gaming promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if our gaming promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. furthermore, if any of our gaming promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the gaming promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement with the macau government expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. we may not be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all and, if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid to us may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the redemption of or failure to extend our concession would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if wynn macau fails to comply with the concession agreement, the macau government can terminate our concession without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 26 table of contents our macau subsidiaries' indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our macau subsidiaries' debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. in the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our macau subsidiaries' unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in hiring and retaining employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. in addition, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos. competition for these individuals in macau has increased and will continue to increase as we open wynn palace, and as other competitors expand their operations. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. despite our coordination with the macau labor and immigration authorities to assure that our labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or obtain required work permits for those employees. if we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in macau could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the macau government has established a maximum number of gaming tables that may be operated in macau and may limit the number of new gaming tables at new gaming areas in macau, including our development project, wynn palace. the macau government has imposed a cap on gaming tables and restricts the number of gaming tables that may be operated in macau. we may not be able to obtain macau government's approval to operate a sufficient number of gaming tables at our development project, wynn palace. these restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. our macau operations, including wynn palace, are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. macau's legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. the continued success of our macau operations and the future success of wynn palace will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions, laws or regulations that might impede wynn macau's operations or ability to repatriate funds. we are currently required to complete wynn palace by may 2017. if we are unable to meet this deadline, we may lose the respective land concession, which could prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession. the company has capitalized approximately $3.4 billion , including the land premium (net of amortization) and $199.9 million in outstanding construction payables and construction retention, as of december 31, 2015. under the company's land concession for wynn palace, the company is required to complete the development by may 2017. should the company determine that it is unable to complete wynn palace by this deadline, the company would expect to apply for an extension from the macau government. if the company is unable to meet the current deadline and the deadline for the development is not extended, the company could lose its land concession for wynn palace, which would prohibit the company from operating any facilities developed under the land concession. as a result, the company could record a charge for all or some portion of its capitalized construction costs and land premiums (net of amortization). the company expects to open wynn palace in the first half of 2016; however, potential construction delays could push the opening date into the second half of 2016. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased 27 table of contents volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. the smoking control legislation in macau could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in 2014, the macau government approved smoking control legislation, which prohibits smoking in casinos starting on october 6, 2014. the legislation, however, permits casinos to maintain certain limited smoking areas open to vip patrons if such areas are within restricted access areas, comply with certain square footage ratios based on overall gaming area square footage and comply with the conditions set out in the dispatch of the chief executive, dated november 1, 2012, as amended by the dispatch of the chief executive, dated june 3, 2014. public announcements by the macau government indicate that the macau government intends to pursue a full smoking ban within all macau casinos. the existing smoking legislation, and any smoking legislation intended to fully ban all smoking in casinos, may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in macau and disrupt the number of patrons visiting or the amount of time visiting patrons spend at our property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau's subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resort complex and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. in october 2009, wynn macau, limited, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited. as of december 31, 2015, wynn resorts owns approximately 72% of wynn macau's ordinary shares of common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau's gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our wynn macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau's operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. 28 table of contents in addition, if the nevada gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary's gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau's obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau's concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and the two are often used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are no longer linked to the u.s. dollar, the exchange rate for these currencies may severely fluctuate. the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies may also change. because many of wynn macau's payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau's obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau's gaming operations. risks related to share ownership and stockholder matters our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. as of december 31, 2015, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn own 11,070,000 shares and 9,539,077 shares, respectively, or in the aggregate approximately 20.3%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders' approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. under the stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn have agreed to vote the shares of the company's common stock held by them subject to the terms of the stockholders agreement in a manner so as to elect to our board of directors each of the nominees contained on each and every slate of directors endorsed by mr. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, exercises significant influence over the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the stockholders agreement requires the written consent of the other party prior to any party selling any shares of the company's common stock that it owns. in june 2012, in connection with the pending litigation between the company and aruze, elaine p. wynn submitted a cross claim against mr. wynn and mr. okada seeking to void the stockholders agreement, which, if successful, could result in, 29 table of contents a change in control under the wynn las vegas, llc debt documents. for additional information on the cross claim, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." in november 2006, the board of directors of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts' common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze from nevada's acquisition of controlling interest statutes. in light of the determination by the board of directors on february 18, 2012 that each of the okada parties is an "unsuitable person" under the company's articles of incorporation and the redemption and cancellation of aruze's shares of company common stock, our fifth amended and restated bylaws amended these provisions to delete the reference to aruze and its affiliates. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a "controlling interest" as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of these bylaws provisions, mr. wynn or his affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting him or them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the company in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the company's stockholders granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. our stock price may be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general united states, china, and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, increased competition, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, changes in applicable laws or regulations, and changes affecting the travel industry. the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. risks related to our indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2015 , we had total outstanding debt of approximately $9.2 billion , which includes a portion of the funds we expect to need for the development and construction of our projects, wynn palace and the wynn resort in massachusetts. we may, however, incur additional indebtedness in connection with the construction of these projects. see item 1 "business," "construction and development opportunities". in addition, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our wynn macau credit facilities, our wynn america credit facilities and our wynn las vegas, llc indentures in connection with other future potential development plans. on february 18, 2012, we issued a redemption note with a principal amount of approximately $1.94 billion in redemption of all of the shares of wynn resorts common stock held by aruze. as of december 31, 2015, the fair value of the redemption note was $1.88 billion . for additional information on the redemption and the redemption note, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies". our indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: failure to meet our payment obligations or other obligations could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, foreclosure upon our assets that serve as collateral or bankruptcy and trigger cross defaults under other agreements; servicing our indebtedness requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and wynn macau and reduces the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital and other cash requirements; the okada parties have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares and we are currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. the outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties including current or former investors or regulators. any 30 table of contents adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies"; we may experience decreased revenues from our operations due to decreased consumer spending levels and high unemployment, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to satisfy working capital requirements or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; and rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and a minimum earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. for more information on financial covenants we are subject to under our debt facilities, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 8 "long-term debt." future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member's interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; undergo a change of control; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events outside of our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. if our properties' operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants, causing a default under our agreements, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders or holders of our debt taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets or cause all outstanding amounts to be due and payable immediately. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings, supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2015 , of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2015 , 59 table of contents such rates remain at historic lows. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2015 of 0.42% and 0.22%, respectively, were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 6,486 $ 6,486 average interest rate % % % % % 4.3 % 4.3 % variable rate $ $ $ 123 $ 281 $ 912 $ 1,492 $ 2,809 average interest rate % % 2.1 % 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.0 % 2.0 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis. changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as a change in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. we currently have three interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under our wynn macau credit facilities. under two of the swap agreements, we pay a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.73% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of hk$3.95 billion (approximately $509.4 million) incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. these interest rate swaps fix the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.23% to 2.98% . these interest rate swap agreements mature in july 2017. under the third swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.68% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of $243.8 million incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.18% to 2.93% . this interest rate swap agreement matures in july 2017. as of december 31, 2015, interest rate swaps were recorded as an asset of $0.7 million included in deposits and other assets and as a liability of $0.1 million included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2014, interest rate swaps were recorded as an asset of $5.9 million included in deposits and other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. the fair value approximates the amount we would pay or receive if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. we adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. 60 table of contents other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2015 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total (dollars in millions) average notional amount $ $ 753 $ $ $ $ $ 753 average pay rate % 0.71 % % % % % 0.71 % average receive rate % 0.77 % % % % % 0.77 % we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 78% of our debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2015 , an assumed 1% change in the variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $20.6 million . foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau's concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau's payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau's obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau's results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. to date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk. based on our balances at december 31, 2015 , an assumed 1% change in the us dollar/hong kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of approximately $23.4 million . 61 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, regarding matters that could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our business the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and reputation of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. mr. wynn's employment agreement expires in october 2022; however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with wynn resorts. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of global economic conditions. consumer demand for casino/hotel resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to changes in the global economy, which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general global economic conditions, high unemployment, weakness in housing or oil markets, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the global economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism have in the past and could in the future reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. also, consumer demographics and preferences may evolve over time, which, for example, has resulted in growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and react to those trends and any failure to do so may negatively impact our operating results. visitation to macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland china, restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china and the anti-corruption campaign. a significant number of our gaming customers at our macau operations come from mainland china. continued economic disruption, contraction and uncertainty in china could further impact the number of patrons visiting our macau operations or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, policies adopted from time to time by the chinese government, including any travel restrictions imposed by china on its citizens such as restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland china for travel to macau, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. it is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented in 2009 restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens to macau and 16 table of contents hong kong, will be put in place and travel policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. furthermore, the chinese government's ongoing anti-corruption campaign has influenced the behavior of chinese consumers and their spending patterns both domestically and abroad. the campaign has specifically led to tighter monetary transfer regulations, including real time monitoring of certain financial channels, certain types of guidelines on cash withdrawals, which has disrupted, and may impact, the number of visitors and the amount of money they bring from mainland china to macau. the overall effect of the campaign and monetary transfer restrictions may impact visitation and may continue to negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. acts or the threat of acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. most of our customers travel to reach our las vegas and macau properties. acts of terrorism or concerns over the possibility of such acts may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to las vegas and macau, including our properties. regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war or worldwide infectious disease outbreak would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are currently entirely dependent upon our macau operations and las vegas operations for all of our operating cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: changes in local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters, including the outbreak of infectious diseases; an increase in the cost of maintaining our properties; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; and a decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. we are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. we conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. in addition, our subsidiaries' debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. we expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. an inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends and distributions would have a significant negative effect on our liquidity. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition, which may increase in the future. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. our macau operations face intense competition with approximately 36 other casinos currently operating in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three subconcessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which 17 table of contents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires will open additional facilities in the cotai area during 2017 and 2018. these cotai facilities are expected to increase total hotel room inventory by approximately 12.3% from the current inventory and significantly increase other gaming and non-gaming offerings in macau. our macau operations face competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as singapore, the philippines and malaysia. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries, such as japan, are successful, we will face additional regional competition. our las vegas operations compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with other casino/hotel facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from wynn las vegas. increased competition could result in a loss of customers, which may negatively affect our cash flows and results of operations. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. the casino credit we extend is generally unsecured and due on demand. we will extend casino credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. macau operations. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, our macau operations may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that our macau operations will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. las vegas operations. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a "marker," are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. 18 table of contents win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. the gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. in addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played, the amount of time played and undiscovered acts of fraud or cheating. our gross gaming revenues are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. our new projects may not be successful. in addition to the construction and regulatory risks associated with our current and future construction projects, we cannot assure you that the level of consumer demand for our casino resorts or for the type of luxury amenities that we will offer will meet our expectations. the operating results of our new projects may be materially different than the operating results of our current integrated resorts due to, among other reasons, differences in consumer and corporate spending and preferences in new geographic areas, increased competition from other markets or other developments that may be beyond our control. in addition, our new projects may be more sensitive to certain risks, including risks associated with downturns in the economy, than the resorts we currently operate. the demands imposed by new developments on our managerial, operational and other resources may impact our operation of our existing resorts. if any of these issues were to occur, it could adversely affect our prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. we could encounter substantial cost increases higher than expected in the development of our projects. we are currently constructing wynn boston harbor in everett, massachusetts. the total project budget for wynn boston harbor, including gaming license fees, construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses and land costs, is estimated to be approximately $2.4 billion. the projected development costs for wynn boston harbor reflect our best estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. contingencies that have been set aside by us to cover potential cost overruns or potential delays may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns or delays. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, or if we are not able to recover damages for these delays and contingencies, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and this project may not be completed. failure to complete this project may negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to pay our debt. construction projects will be subject to development and construction risks, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. major construction projects of the scope and scale of wynn boston harbor entail significant risks, including: unanticipated cost increases; shortages of, and price increases in, materials or skilled labor; changes to plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, real estate development or construction projects; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environment, health and safety issues, including site accidents; delays or interference from severe weather or natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and unavailability of construction equipment. 19 table of contents construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of wynn boston harbor. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of the subcontractor's work and payment for all of that subcontractor's labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. our wynn boston harbor facility may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for the project may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete the project on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. we are currently required to commence gaming operations at wynn boston harbor by june 2020. if we are unable to meet this deadline, the massachusetts gaming commission may suspend or revoke our gaming license. pursuant to the gaming act, the company is required to commence gaming operations at wynn boston harbor by june 2020, the date that is one year from our projected opening date of june 2019. if the company is unable to meet the current deadline and is unable to obtain an extension of the deadline from the mgc, the mgc may suspend or revoke our gaming license and, if we are found by the mgc after a hearing to have acted in bad faith, we will be assessed a fine of up to $50,000,000. failure to meet the deadline could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from this planned facility. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities could have a negative effect on our business. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations in the jurisdictions in which our resorts are located. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the nevada gaming commission may require the holder of any debt or securities we or wynn las vegas, llc issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts' securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. the company's articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. on february 18, 2012, after receiving a report from freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp (the "freeh report") detailing numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of wynn resorts' shares) and certain of his affiliates, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that aruze usa inc. ( aruze ), universal entertainment corporation, and mr. kazuo okada (collectively, the "okada parties") were "unsuitable" within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze's shares of wynn resorts' common stock. see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." nevada and massachusetts regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approvals; approve changes in our operations; and levy fines or require forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. complying with gaming laws, regulations and license requirements is costly. any change in the nevada and massachusetts laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures and forfeit assets, and would negatively affect our gaming operations. our macau operations are subject to unique risks. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of our macau operations' concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we are subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau's gaming regulatory framework has not 20 table of contents developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. any violation of applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations or the foreign corrupt practices act could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various jurisdictions' reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. recently, both u.s. and macau governmental authorities have increased their focus on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. from time to time, the company receives governmental and regulatory inquiries about compliance with such laws and regulations. the company cooperates with all such inquiries. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. further, we have operations, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived outside of the united states. we are therefore subject to regulations imposed by the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect such laws and regulations. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if we or our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions, which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. mr. okada failed to comply with internal training in these matters and failed to return to wynn resorts an executed acknowledgment agreeing to comply with the wynn resorts code of business conduct and ethics. on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts' filed a complaint in nevada state court against mr. okada and other entities alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the fcpa. for information on such complaint, the freeh report, which detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates, and the redemption aruze's shares, see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. contamination has been identified at and in the vicinity of our site in everett, massachusetts. the ultimate cost of remediating contaminated sites is difficult to accurately predict and could exceed our current estimates. we may be required to conduct additional investigations and remediation with respect to this site. as a result, we also could incur material costs in excess of our estimates as a result of additional cleanup obligations imposed or contamination identified in the future. our proposed expenditures related to environmental matters are not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. however, the environmental laws under which we operate are 21 table of contents complicated and often increasingly more stringent, and may be applied retroactively. accordingly, we may be required to make additional expenditures to remain in, or to achieve compliance with, environmental laws in the future. compliance with changing laws and regulations may result in additional expenses and compliance risks. changing laws and regulations are creating uncertainty for gaming companies. these changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. in addition, further regulation of casinos, financial institutions and public companies is possible. this could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. in addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, our ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. potential violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates could have adverse consequences to the company. the freeh reported detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates. see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." the company has provided the freeh report to applicable regulators and has been cooperating with related investigations of such regulators. the conduct of mr. okada and his affiliates and the outcome of any resulting regulatory findings could have adverse consequences to the company. a finding by regulatory authorities that mr. okada violated the fcpa on company property and/or otherwise involved the company in criminal or civil violations could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the company. relatedly, regulators have and may pursue separate investigations into the company's compliance with applicable laws in connection with the okada matter, as discussed in item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." while the company believes that it is in full compliance with all applicable laws, any such investigations could result in actions by regulators against the company, which could negatively affect the company's financial condition or results of operations. mr. okada and his affiliates have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares. an adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the related litigation could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business. on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts' gaming compliance committee received the freeh report detailing a pattern of misconduct by the okada parties. after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that each of the okada parties was "unsuitable" within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze's shares of wynn resorts' common stock. see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts filed a complaint in the eighth judicial district court, clark county, nevada against the okada parties (as amended, the "complaint"), alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims (the "redemption action") arising from the activities addressed in the freeh report. the company is seeking compensatory and special damages as well as a declaration that it acted lawfully and in full compliance with its articles of incorporation, bylaws and other governing documents in redeeming and canceling the shares of aruze. on march 12, 2012, the okada parties filed an answer denying the claims and a counterclaim (as amended, the "counterclaim") against the company, each of the members of the company's board of directors (other than mr. okada) and wynn resorts' general counsel (collectively, the "wynn parties"), seeking, among other things a declaration that the redemption of aruze's shares was void, an injunction restoring aruze's share ownership, damages in an unspecified amount and rescission of the amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of january 6, 2010, by and among aruze, stephen a. wynn, and elaine p. wynn (the "stockholders agreement"). in connection with the redemption action and counterclaim (1) various okada parties filed a complaint in the tokyo district court against the company, all members of the board of directors (other than mr. okada) and the company's general counsel alleging that the press release issued by the company in connection with the redemption action has damaged their social evaluation and credibility and seeking damages and legal fees, (2) four federal derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors, (3) two state derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors, (4) regulatory inquiries and investigations were initiated against the company, and (5) the okada parties filed a complaint in the court of first instance of macau (against 22 table of contents wynn macau sa and certain individuals who are or were directors of wynn macau sa and/or wynn macau, limited). see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies," for a full description of these matters and status as of the date of this report. the company is vigorously pursuing its claims against the okada parties, and together with the other counter-defendants, vigorously defending against the counterclaim and other actions asserted against them. however, as with all litigation, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties, including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. change in valuation of our redemption price promissory note could have a negative impact on our financial results. we record the redemption note at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, the fair value of the redemption note was $1.82 billion and $1.88 billion , respectively. in determining this fair value, we estimated the redemption note's present value using discounted cash flows with a probability-weighted expected return for redemption assumptions and a discount rate, which included time value and non-performance risk adjustments commensurate with the risk of the redemption note. considerations for the redemption assumptions included the stated maturity of the redemption note, uncertainty of the related cash flows as well as potential effects of the following: uncertainties surrounding the potential outcome and timing of pending litigation with the okada parties (see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies"); the outcome of on-going investigations of aruze by the united states attorney's office, the u.s. department of justice and the nevada gaming control board; and other potential legal and regulatory actions. in addition, in the furtherance of various future business objectives, we considered our ability, at our sole option, to prepay the redemption note at any time in accordance with its terms without penalty. accordingly, we reasonably determined that the estimated life of the redemption note could be less than the contractual life of the redemption note. in determination of the appropriate discount rate to be used in the estimated present value, the redemption note's subordinated position and credit risk relative to all other debt in our capital structure and credit ratings associated with our traded debt were considered. observable inputs for the risk free rate were based on federal reserve rates for u.s. treasury securities and the credit risk spread was based on a yield curve index of similarly rated debt. a change in any of the assumptions discussed above could result in a change in the fair value of this redemption note and significantly impact our financial results. ongoing litigation and other disputes with mr. okada and certain of his affiliates, as well as claims by ms. wynn, could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny from regulators. there has been widespread publicity of the findings in the freeh report of prima facie violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates, the board of directors' unsuitability finding, the redemption of shares and related litigation. the actions, litigation, and publicity could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. in addition, elaine p. wynn has asserted various claims against mr. wynn, the company and various company officers, which have and may continue to draw adverse publicity or impugn the company's reputation. ongoing litigation and other disputes can be expensive to defend and may divert management's attention from the operations of our businesses. the disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company's gaming licenses, and possibly have a negative impact on the company's ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security. we rely on information technology and other systems (including those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services) to maintain and transmit large volumes of customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information and other personally identifiable information. we also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. the systems and processes we have implemented to protect customers, employees and company information are subject to the ever-changing risk of compromised security. these risks include cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third-party vendors. the steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful and our insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. our third-party information system service providers 23 table of contents face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations and privacy law is an area that changes often and varies significantly by jurisdiction. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of "wynn," are among our most valuable assets. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include "wynn resorts," "wynn design and development," "wynn las vegas," "wynn macau," "wynn palace" and "encore." some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname "wynn." as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired "secondary meaning." to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn's prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. furthermore, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including losses resulting from terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. however, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain in the future or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain catastrophic losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, if we suffer such a catastrophic loss, we may not be successful in obtaining future insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. furthermore, our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition. 24 table of contents risks associated with our macau operations our macau operations may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. our macau operations, including wynn palace, are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. macau's legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. the future success of our macau operations will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions, laws or regulations that might impede our macau operations or ability to repatriate funds. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in hiring and retaining employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. in addition, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos. competition for these individuals in macau has increased and will continue to increase as other competitors expand their operations. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. despite our coordination with the macau labor and immigration authorities to assure that our labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or obtain required work permits for those employees. if we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in macau could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the macau government has established a maximum number of gaming tables that can be operated in macau and has limited the number of new gaming tables at new gaming areas in macau. prior to the opening of wynn palace, the dicj authorized 100 new table games for operation at wynn palace with 25 additional table games authorized for operation on january 1, 2017, and a further 25 new table games for operation on january 1, 2018, for a total of 150 new table games in the aggregate. in addition, we have and will continue to transfer table games between wynn macau and wynn palace, subject to the aggregate cap, to optimize our casino operations. as of february 15, 2017, we had a total of 303 table games at wynn macau and 304 at wynn palace. the smoking control legislation in macau could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in 2014, the macau government approved additional smoking control legislation, which prohibited smoking in casinos starting on october 6, 2014. the legislation, however, permits casinos to maintain certain limited smoking areas open to vip patrons if such areas are within restricted access areas, comply with certain square footage ratios based on overall gaming area square footage and comply with the conditions set out in the dispatch of the chief executive, dated november 1, 2012, as amended by the dispatch of the chief executive, dated june 3, 2014. prior public announcements by the macau government indicated that the macau government intended to pursue a full smoking ban within all macau casinos, but in february 2017, macau's health bureau proposed not pursuing a full ban and permitting casinos to have smoking lounges constructed in accordance with certain stringent technical standards still to be determined. the existing smoking legislation, and any smoking legislation intended to fully ban all smoking in casinos, may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in macau and disrupt the number of patrons visiting or the amount of time visiting patrons spend at our property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand of visitors to macau. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau, hong kong, and mainland china may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of our macau operations, could be negatively impacted. furthermore, construction of current 25 table of contents and future casino projects, as well as any future infrastructure projects, adjacent to our properties could impede access to our properties during construction and development. this may negatively impact the results of our macau operations. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on our macau operations. macau's subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resorts and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right beginning in 2017. our concession agreement with the macau government expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. we may not be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all and, if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid to us may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the redemption of or failure to extend our concession would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if our macau operations fail to comply with the concession agreement, the macau government can terminate our concession without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement of our macau operations if it: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, our macau operations will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. certain nevada gaming laws apply to our macau operations' gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct our macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable 26 table of contents threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary's gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. we depend upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. we may lose the clientele of our gaming promoters, who generate a significant portion of our gaming revenue. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by gaming promoters, which has intensified as additional casinos open in macau. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, or lose a significant number of our gaming promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. the financial resources of our gaming promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business in macau which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. our gaming promoters may experience difficulty in attracting patrons. given present market conditions in macau and certain economic and other factors occurring in the region, gaming promoters are encountering difficulties in attracting patrons to come to macau. further, gaming promoters are experiencing decreased liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, resulting in decreased gaming volume in macau and at our macau operations. credit already extended by our gaming promoters to their patrons has become difficult for them to collect. the inability to attract sufficient patrons, grant credit and collect amounts due in a timely manner are negatively affecting our gaming promoters' operations, causing gaming promoters to wind up or liquidate their operations or resulting in some of our gaming promoters leaving macau. current and any future difficulties could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. increased competition for the services of gaming promoters may require us to pay increased commission rates to gaming promoters. certain gaming promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in gaming promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with gaming promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to gaming promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 27 table of contents failure by the gaming promoters with whom we work to comply with macau gaming laws and high standards of probity and integrity might affect our reputation and ability to comply with the requirements of our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. the reputations and probity of the gaming promoters with whom we work are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. we conduct periodic reviews of the probity and compliance programs of our gaming promoters. however, we are not able to control our gaming promoters' compliance with these high standards of probity and integrity, and our gaming promoters may violate provisions in their contracts with us designed to ensure such compliance. in addition, if we enter into a new business relationship with a gaming promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if our gaming promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. furthermore, if any of our gaming promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the gaming promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase our macau operations' obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in our macau operations' concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca is linked to the hong kong dollar, and the two are often used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are no longer linked to the u.s. dollar, the exchange rate for these currencies may severely fluctuate. the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies may also change. because many of our macau operations payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, our macau operations' obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact our macau operations. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of our macau operations. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact our macau operations. our macau subsidiaries' indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our macau subsidiaries' debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. in the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our macau subsidiaries' unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. wynn macau, limited, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau and wynn palace, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited in october 2009. as of december 31, 2016, wynn resorts owns approximately 72% of wynn macau, limited's ordinary shares of common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary 28 table of contents obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. risks related to share ownership and stockholder matters our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. as of december 31, 2016, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn owned 12,000,000 shares and 9,611,927 shares, respectively, or in the aggregate approximately 21.2%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders' approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. under the stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn have agreed to vote the shares of wynn resorts' common stock held by them that are subject to the terms of the stockholders agreement in a manner so as to elect to our board of directors each of the nominees contained on each and every slate of directors endorsed by mr. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, exercises significant influence over the slate of directors to be elected to wynn resorts' board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the stockholders agreement requires the written consent of the other party prior to any party selling any shares of wynn resorts' common stock that it owns. in june 2012, in connection with the pending litigation between the company and aruze, elaine p. wynn submitted a cross claim against mr. wynn and mr. okada seeking to void the stockholders agreement, which, if successful, could result in a change in control under the wynn las vegas, llc debt documents. for additional information on the cross claim, see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." in november 2006, the board of directors of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts' common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze from nevada's acquisition of controlling interest statutes. in light of the determination by the board of directors on february 18, 2012 that each of the okada parties is an "unsuitable person" under the company's articles of incorporation and the redemption and cancellation of aruze's shares of company common stock, our fifth amended and restated bylaws amended these provisions to delete the reference to aruze and its affiliates. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a "controlling interest" as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of these bylaws provisions, mr. wynn or his affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting him or them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the company in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the company's stockholders granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. our stock price may be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general united states, china, and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, increased competition, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, changes in applicable laws or regulations, and changes affecting the travel industry. the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. risks related to our indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2016 , we had total outstanding debt of approximately $10.13 billion , which includes a portion of the funds we expect to need for the development and construction of our current projects. we may, however, incur additional indebtedness in connection with the construction of 29 table of contents these projects. see item 1-"business," "construction and development opportunities". in addition, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our wynn macau credit facilities, our wynn america credit facilities and our wynn las vegas, llc indentures in connection with other future potential development plans. on february 18, 2012, we issued a redemption note with a principal amount of approximately $1.94 billion in redemption of all of the shares of wynn resorts common stock held by aruze. as of december 31, 2016, the fair value of the redemption note was $1.82 billion . for additional information on the redemption and the redemption note, see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies." our indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: failure to meet our payment obligations or other obligations could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, foreclosure upon our assets that serve as collateral or bankruptcy and trigger cross defaults under other agreements; servicing our indebtedness requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of our las vegas and macau operations and reduces the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital and other cash requirements or pay for other capital expenditures; the okada parties have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares and we are currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. the outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 17 "commitments and contingencies"; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed; and rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and a minimum earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. for more information on financial covenants we are subject to under our debt facilities, see item 8-"financial statements and supplementary data," note 9 "long-term debt." future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member's interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; undergo a change of control; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. 30 table of contents our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events outside of our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. if our properties' operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants, causing a default under our agreements, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders or holders of our debt taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets or cause all outstanding amounts to be due and payable immediately. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. 59 table of contents interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings, supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments as of december 31, 2016 , of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2016 , such rates remain at historic lows. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates as of december 31, 2016 of 0.77% and 0.75%, respectively, were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ 1,350.0 $ 5,136.4 $ 6,486.4 average interest rate % % % % 5.3 % 4.0 % 4.3 % variable rate $ $ 313.0 $ 364.3 $ 1,668.3 $ 1,491.7 $ $ 3,837.3 average interest rate % 1.9 % 2.7 % 2.6 % 2.8 % % 2.6 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis. changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as a change in interest rate swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. we currently have three interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under our wynn macau credit facilities. under two of the swap agreements, we pay a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.73% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of hk$3.95 billion (approximately $509.4 million) in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. these interest rate swaps fix the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.23% to 2.98% . these interest rate swap agreements mature in july 2017. under the third swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.68% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of $243.8 million in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.18% to 2.93% . this interest rate swap agreement matures in july 2017. as of december 31, 2016 , interest rate swaps of $1.1 million were included in prepaid expenses and other in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2015, interest rate swaps of $0.7 million were included in other assets and $0.1 million were included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. the fair value approximates the amount we would pay or receive if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. we adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. 60 table of contents other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2016 , using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total (dollars in millions) average notional amount $ 753.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 753.0 average pay rate 0.71 % % % % % % 0.71 % average receive rate 0.95 % % % % % % 0.95 % we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 66.5% of our debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2016 , an assumed 1% change in the variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $34.6 million . foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau sa's concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. we manage exposure to foreign currency risks associated with future scheduled interest payments through the use of foreign currency forward contracts. these contracts involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date and are with a counter party, which is a major international financial institution. we expect most of the revenues and expenses for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars or macau patacas. for any u.s. dollar-denominated debt or other obligations incurred by our macau-related entities, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service debt. based on our balances as of december 31, 2016 , an assumed 1% change in the us dollar/hong kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of approximately $28.2 million . 61 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, regarding matters that could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our business the controversy, regulatory action, litigation and investigations related to stephen a. wynn and his separation from the company could significantly harm our business. on february 6, 2018, mr. wynn resigned as ceo and chairman of the board of directors after allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by mr. wynn in the workplace were reported in a january 26, 2018 wall street journal article. the resulting controversy related to mr. wynn and his separation from the company could significantly harm our business in numerous ways, including in ways that we cannot predict. as discussed elsewhere in this form 10-k, gaming regulators in macau, massachusetts and nevada are reviewing the situation. each of these regulatory authorities has extensive power to license and oversee the operations of our casino resorts and could take action against the company and its related licensees or mr. wynn, including actions that could affect the ability or terms upon which our subsidiaries hold their gaming licenses and concessions, the suitability of the company to continue as a stockholder of those subsidiaries, and/or the suitability of mr. wynn to continue as a stockholder of the company. as discussed in item 3 "legal proceedings" and item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies litigation," lawsuits have been filed against the company and our board of directors arising out of the allegations against mr. wynn, and such claims present a number of risks, including distraction of management, assertions that could affect our reputation, and potential legal liabilities. additional allegations have been and may in the future be asserted against mr. wynn and/or the company, and additional regulatory or legal proceedings involving the company may be commenced in the future. the developments regarding mr. wynn have and may in the future affect the course of proceedings and the parties' position in litigation in which elaine p. wynn, mr. wynn's former spouse, submitted a cross claim seeking to void a stockholders agreement to which she and mr. wynn are parties. the cross claim, if successful, could increase the possibility of a change in control occurring for purposes of 16 table of contents certain wynn las vegas, llc debt documents. for additional information on the cross claim, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." in addition, the company's integrated resort business model was pioneered by mr. wynn. our business, reputation, and competitive position may now suffer as a result of our association with mr. wynn, or as a result of his separation from the company and the loss of his skills and experience. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities could have a negative effect on our business. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations in the jurisdictions in which our resorts are located. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the ngc may require the holder of any debt or securities we or wynn las vegas, llc issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts' securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. the company's articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by such unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. on february 18, 2012, after receiving a report from freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp (the "freeh report") detailing numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of wynn resorts' shares) and certain of his affiliates, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that aruze usa inc. ("aruze"), universal entertainment corporation, and mr. kazuo okada (collectively, the "okada parties") were "unsuitable" within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze's shares of wynn resorts' common stock. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." nevada and massachusetts regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approvals; approve changes in our operations; and levy fines or require forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. complying with gaming laws, regulations and license requirements is costly. any change in the nevada and massachusetts laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures and forfeit assets, and would negatively affect our gaming operations. our macau operations are subject to unique risks. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of our macau operations' concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we are subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau's gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. in connection with the allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by mr. wynn in the workplace reported in a january 26, 2018 wall street journal article, gaming regulators in massachusetts and nevada are reviewing the allegations, the company's internal policies and procedures with respect to maintaining a safe and respectful workplace for all employees and suitability with respect to the company and its related licensees. the gaming regulator in macau is monitoring and reviewing the situation. each of these regulatory authorities has extensive power to license and oversee the operations of our casino resorts and could take action against the company and its related licensees or mr. wynn, including actions that could affect the ability or terms upon which our subsidiaries hold their gaming licenses and concessions, the suitability of the company to continue as a stockholder of those affiliates and/or the suitability of mr. wynn to continue as a stockholder of the company. 17 table of contents ongoing investigations, litigation and other disputes could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny from regulators. there has been widespread publicity of the findings in the freeh report of prima facie violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates, the board of directors' unsuitability finding, the redemption of shares and related litigation. in addition, elaine p. wynn has asserted various claims against mr. wynn, the company and various company officers, which have and may continue to draw adverse publicity or impugn the company's reputation. on january 26, 2018, the company's board of directors formed a special committee comprised solely of independent directors to investigate allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by mr. wynn in the workplace. on february 12, 2018, the special committee announced that its review was expanded to include a comprehensive review of the company's internal policies and procedures with the goal of employing best practices to maintain a safe and respectful workplace for all employees. gaming regulators in massachusetts and nevada are reviewing these matters, including suitability with respect to the company and its related licensees, and the company is cooperating with these regulatory reviews. the gaming regulator in macau is monitoring and reviewing the situation, and the company is cooperating. the foregoing investigations, litigation and other disputes and any additional such matters that may arise in the future, can be expensive and may divert management's attention from the operations of our businesses. the investigations, litigation and other disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company's gaming licenses and the company's ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. in addition, the actions, litigation and publicity could negatively impact our business, reputation and competitive position and could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wml and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. we depend on the continued services of key managers and employees. if we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team. the loss of services of our senior managers or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of global economic conditions. consumer demand for casino/hotel resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to changes in the global economy, which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general global economic conditions, high unemployment, weakness in housing or oil markets, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the global economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism have in the past and could in the future reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. also, consumer demographics and preferences may evolve over time, which, for example, has resulted in growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and react to those trends and any failure to do so may negatively impact our operating results. visitation to macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland china, restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china and the anti-corruption or similar campaigns. a significant number of our gaming customers at our macau operations come from mainland china. economic disruption, contraction and uncertainty in china could impact the number of patrons visiting our macau operations or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, policies adopted from time to time by the chinese government, including any travel restrictions imposed by china on its citizens such as restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland china for travel to macau, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. it is not known when, or if, policies restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens to macau and hong kong, will be put in place and travel policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. furthermore, the chinese government's continuing anti-corruption campaign has influenced the behavior of chinese consumers and their spending patterns both domestically and abroad. the campaign and mainland chinese monetary outflow policies have specifically led to tighter monetary transfer regulations, including real time monitoring of certain financial channels, limitations on cash withdrawals from atm machines by mainland china citizens and 18 table of contents the reduction of annual withdrawal limits from bank accounts while the account holder is outside of mainland china. these policies may impact the number of visitors and the amount of money they bring from mainland china to macau. the overall effect of these policies may negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel to and spend time at our resorts. acts or the threat of acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air and other travel and may otherwise negatively impact tourists' willingness to visit our resorts. such events or developments could reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. most of our customers travel to reach our las vegas and macau properties. acts of terrorism or concerns over the possibility of such acts may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to las vegas and macau, including our properties. regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war or worldwide infectious disease outbreak would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, the attack in las vegas on october 1, 2017 underscores the possibility that large public facilities could become the target of mass shootings or other attacks in the future. the occurrence or the possibility of attacks could cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising from death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attack; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums, all of which could adversely affect our results. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain the reputation of our resorts. our strategy and integrated resort business model rely on positive perceptions of our resorts and the level of service we provide. any deterioration in our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation could be negatively impacted by our failure to deliver the superior design and customer service for which we are known or by events that are beyond our control. our reputation may also suffer as a result of negative publicity regarding the company or our resorts, including as a result of social media reports, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity. the continued expansion of media and social media formats has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity and has made it more difficult to control and effectively manage negative publicity. mr. okada and his affiliates have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares. an adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the related litigation could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business. on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts' gaming compliance committee received the freeh report detailing a pattern of misconduct by the okada parties. after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that each of the okada parties was "unsuitable" within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts' articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze's shares of wynn resorts' common stock. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts filed a complaint in the eighth judicial district court, clark county, nevada against the okada parties (as amended, the "complaint"), alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims (the "redemption action") arising from the activities addressed in the freeh report. the company is seeking compensatory and special damages as well as a declaration that it acted lawfully and in full compliance with its articles of incorporation, bylaws and other governing documents in redeeming and canceling the shares of aruze. on march 12, 2012, the okada parties filed an answer denying the claims and a counterclaim (as amended, the "counterclaim") against the company, each of the members of the company's board of directors (other than mr. okada) and wynn resorts' general counsel (collectively, the "wynn parties"), seeking, among other things, a declaration that the redemption of aruze's shares was void, an injunction restoring aruze's share ownership, damages in an unspecified amount and rescission of the amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of january 6, 2010, by and among aruze, stephen a. wynn, and elaine p. wynn (the "stockholders agreement"). in connection with the redemption action and counterclaim additional actions were commenced. for a full description of these matters and status as of the date of this report, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." the company is vigorously pursuing its claims against the okada parties, and together with the other counter-defendants, vigorously defending against the counterclaim and other actions asserted against them. however, as with all litigation, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our 19 table of contents financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties, including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are currently entirely dependent upon our macau operations and las vegas operations for all of our operating cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: changes in local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations, and the way in which those laws and regulations are applied; natural and other disasters, including the outbreak of infectious diseases; an increase in the cost of maintaining our properties; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; and a decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. we are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. we conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. in addition, our subsidiaries' debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. we expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. an inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends and distributions would have a significant negative effect on our liquidity. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition, which may increase in the future. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. our macau operations face intense competition with approximately 39 other casinos currently operating in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three subconcessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires will open additional facilities in the cotai area over the next few years. several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires have opened facilities in the cotai area over the past few years, which has significantly increased gaming and non-gaming offerings in macau, with continued development and further openings in cotai expected in the near future. our macau operations face competition from casinos located in singapore, the philippines and malaysia. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries, such as japan, are successful, we will face additional regional competition. our las vegas operations compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with other casino/hotel facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or 20 table of contents near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from wynn las vegas. increased competition could result in a loss of customers, which may negatively affect our cash flows and results of operations. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. the casino credit we extend is generally unsecured and due on demand. we will extend casino credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. macau operations. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, our macau operations may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that our macau operations will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. las vegas operations. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a "marker," are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. the gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. in addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played, the amount of time played and undiscovered acts of fraud or cheating. our gross gaming revenues are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. 21 table of contents our new projects may not be successful. in addition to the construction and regulatory risks associated with our current and future construction projects, we cannot assure you that the level of consumer demand for our casino resorts or for the type of luxury amenities that we will offer will meet our expectations. the operating results of our new projects may be materially different than the operating results of our current integrated resorts due to, among other reasons, differences in consumer and corporate spending and preferences in new geographic areas, increased competition from other markets or other developments that may be beyond our control. in addition, our new projects may be more sensitive to certain risks, including risks associated with downturns in the economy, than the resorts we currently operate. the demands imposed by new developments on our managerial, operational and other resources may impact our operation of our existing resorts. if any of these issues were to occur, it could adversely affect our prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. we could encounter higher than expected cost increases in the development of our projects. we are currently constructing wynn boston harbor in everett, massachusetts. the total project budget for wynn boston harbor, including gaming license fees, construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses and land costs, is estimated to be approximately $2.5 billion. we have begun site preparation and pre-construction activities for the re-development of the land formerly occupied by the wynn las vegas golf course, which we closed in the fourth quarter of 2017. phase 1 of the project is expected to include a lagoon and additional meeting and convention space. based on current designs, we estimate the total project budget for phase 1 to be approximately $500 million and we expect to open phase 1 in the first half of 2020. the projected development costs for our projects reflect our best estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. contingencies that have been set aside by us to cover potential cost overruns or potential delays may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns or delays. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, or if we are not able to recover damages for these delays and contingencies, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and this project may not be completed. failure to complete this project may negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to pay our debt. construction projects will be subject to development and construction risks, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. major construction projects of the scope and scale of wynn boston harbor and the redevelopment of the wynn las vegas golf course land entail significant risks, including: unanticipated cost increases; shortages of, and price increases in, materials or skilled labor; changes to plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, real estate development or construction projects; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environment, health and safety issues, including site accidents; delays or interference from severe weather or natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our projects. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of the subcontractor's work and payment for all of that subcontractor's labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. 22 table of contents our facilities currently under development may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for the projects may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete the projects on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. we are currently required to commence gaming operations at wynn boston harbor by june 2020. if we are unable to meet this deadline, the massachusetts gaming commission may suspend or revoke our gaming license. pursuant to the gaming act, the company is required to commence gaming operations at wynn boston harbor approximately one year from our projected opening date of mid-2019. if the company is unable to meet the current deadline and is unable to obtain an extension of the deadline from the mgc, the mgc may suspend or revoke our gaming license and, if we are found by the mgc after a hearing to have acted in bad faith, we will be assessed a fine of up to $50,000,000. failure to meet the deadline could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from this planned facility. any violation of applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations or the foreign corrupt practices act could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various jurisdictions' reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. both u.s. and macau governmental authorities focus heavily on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. from time to time, the company receives governmental and regulatory inquiries about compliance with such laws and regulations. the company cooperates with all such inquiries. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. further, we have operations, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived outside of the united states. we are therefore subject to regulations imposed by the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect such laws and regulations. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if we or our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions, which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. mr. okada failed to comply with internal training in these matters and failed to return to wynn resorts an executed acknowledgment agreeing to comply with the wynn resorts code of business conduct and ethics. on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts filed a complaint in nevada state court against mr. okada and other entities alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the fcpa. for information on such complaint, the freeh report, which detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates, and the redemption aruze's shares, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the 23 table of contents harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. contamination has been identified at and in the vicinity of our site in everett, massachusetts. the ultimate cost of remediating contaminated sites is difficult to accurately predict and could exceed our current estimates. we may be required to conduct additional investigations and remediation with respect to this site. as a result, we also could incur material costs in excess of our estimates as a result of additional cleanup obligations imposed or contamination identified in the future. however, the environmental laws under which we operate are complicated and often increasingly more stringent, and may be applied retroactively. although our proposed expenditures related to environmental matters are not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we may be required to make additional expenditures to remain in, or to achieve compliance with, environmental laws in the future. compliance with changing laws and regulations may result in additional expenses and compliance risks. changing laws and regulations are creating uncertainty for gaming companies. these changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. in addition, further regulation of casinos, financial institutions and public companies is possible. this could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. in addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the laws and regulations related to taxation, including changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, our ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could change our overall effective rate of taxation. potential violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates could have adverse consequences to the company. the freeh report detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." the company has provided the freeh report to applicable regulators and has been cooperating with related investigations of such regulators. the conduct of mr. okada and his affiliates and the outcome of any resulting regulatory findings could have adverse consequences to the company. a finding by regulatory authorities that mr. okada violated the fcpa on company property and/or otherwise involved the company in criminal or civil violations could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the company. relatedly, regulators have and may pursue separate investigations into the company's compliance with applicable laws in connection with the okada matter, as discussed in item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." while the company believes that it is in full compliance with all applicable laws, any such investigations could result in actions by regulators against the company, which could negatively affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. change in valuation of our redemption price promissory note could have a negative impact on our financial results. we record the redemption note at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, the fair value of the redemption note was $1.88 billion and $1.82 billion , respectively. in determining this fair value, we estimated the redemption note's present value using discounted cash flows with a probability-weighted expected return for redemption assumptions and a discount rate, which included time value and non-performance risk adjustments commensurate with the risk of the redemption note. considerations for the redemption assumptions included the stated maturity of the redemption note, uncertainty of the related cash flows as well as potential effects of the following: uncertainties surrounding the potential outcome and timing of pending litigation with the okada parties (see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies"); the outcome of on-going investigations of aruze by the united states attorney's office, the u.s. department of justice and the nevada gaming control board; and other potential legal and regulatory actions. in 24 table of contents addition, in the furtherance of various future business objectives, we considered our ability, at our sole option, to prepay the redemption note at any time in accordance with its terms without penalty. accordingly, we reasonably determined that the estimated life of the redemption note could be less than the contractual life of the redemption note. in determination of the appropriate discount rate to be used in the estimated present value, the redemption note's subordinated position and credit risk relative to all other debt in our capital structure and credit ratings associated with our traded debt were considered. observable inputs for the risk free rate were based on federal reserve rates for u.s. treasury securities and the credit risk spread was based on a yield curve index of similarly rated debt. a change in any of the assumptions discussed above could result in a change in the fair value of this redemption note and significantly impact our financial results. our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security. we rely on information technology and other systems (including those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services) to maintain and transmit large volumes of customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information and other personally identifiable information. we also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. the systems and processes we have implemented to protect customers, employees and company information are subject to the ever-changing risk of compromised security. these risks include cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third-party vendors. the steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful and our insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. a significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer or company data maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team, and result in remediation expenses, regulatory penalties and litigation by customers and other parties whose information was subject to such attacks, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations, and privacy law is an area that changes often and varies significantly by jurisdiction. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of "wynn," are among our most valuable assets. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include "wynn resorts," "wynn design and development," "wynn las vegas," "wynn macau," "wynn palace" and "encore." some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname "wynn." as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired "secondary meaning." to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn's prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. 25 table of contents furthermore, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. there has been an increase in the international operation of fraudulent online gambling and investment websites attempting to scam and defraud members of the public. we do not offer online gambling or investment accounts. websites offering these or similar activities and opportunities that use our names or similar names or images in likeness to ours, are doing so without our authorization and possibly unlawfully and with criminal intent. if our efforts to cause these sites to be shut down through civil action and by reporting these sites to the appropriate authorities (where applicable) are unsuccessful or not timely completed, these unauthorized activities may continue and harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including losses resulting from terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. however, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain in the future or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain catastrophic losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, if we suffer such a catastrophic loss, we may not be successful in obtaining future insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. furthermore, our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition. risks associated with our macau operations our macau operations may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. our macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. the future success of our macau operations will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions, laws or regulations that might impede our macau operations or our ability to repatriate funds. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right. our concession agreement with the macau government expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. the macau government has publicly commented that it is studying the process by which concessions and subconcessions may be renewed. effective june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the remaining years under the concession. we may not be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all and, if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid to us may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the redemption of or failure to extend our concession would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 26 table of contents we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in hiring and retaining employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. in addition, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos. competition for these individuals in macau has increased and will continue to increase as other competitors expand their operations. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resorts and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. despite our coordination with the macau labor and immigration authorities to assure that our labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or obtain required work permits for those employees. if we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in macau could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the smoking control legislation in macau could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in 2014, the macau government approved additional smoking control legislation, which prohibited smoking in casinos starting on october 6, 2014. the legislation, however, permits casinos to maintain certain limited smoking areas open to vip patrons if such areas are within restricted access areas, comply with certain square footage ratios based on overall gaming area square footage and comply with the conditions set out in the dispatch of the chief executive, dated november 1, 2012, as amended by the dispatch of the chief executive, dated june 3, 2014. prior public announcements by the macau government indicated that the macau government intended to pursue a full smoking ban within all macau casinos, however, a new tobacco control law went into effect on january 1, 2018 requiring casinos to prohibit smoking in the currently permissible areas by december 31, 2018, and construct smoking lounges in accordance with certain stringent technical standards still to be determined. the existing smoking legislation, and any smoking legislation intended to fully ban all smoking in casinos, may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in macau and disrupt the number of patrons visiting or the amount of time visiting patrons spend at our property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand of visitors to macau. because of additional casino projects that are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services, which provide transportation between macau, hong kong, and mainland china may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation to macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of our macau operations, could be negatively impacted. furthermore, construction of current and future casino and infrastructure projects, adjacent to our properties could impede access to our properties during construction and development. this may negatively impact the results of our macau operations. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on our macau operations. macau's subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resorts and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. if our macau operations fail to comply with the concession agreement, the macau government can terminate our concession without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement of our macau operations if it: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; 27 table of contents fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, our macau operations will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. certain nevada gaming laws apply to our macau operations' gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the ngc if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct our macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the ngc for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the ngc finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the ngc find that our macau-related subsidiary's gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. we depend upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. we may lose the clientele of our gaming promoters, who generate a significant portion of our gaming revenue. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by gaming promoters, which has intensified as additional casinos open in macau. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, or lose a significant number of our gaming promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. 28 table of contents the financial resources of our gaming promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business in macau which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. our gaming promoters may experience difficulty in attracting patrons. economic and political factors in the region may cause our gaming promoters to experience difficulties in their macau operations, including intensified competition in attracting patrons to come to macau. further, gaming promoters may face a decrease in liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, and difficulties in collecting credit they extended previously. the inability to attract sufficient patrons, grant credit and collect amounts due in a timely manner may negatively affect our gaming promoters' operations, causing gaming promoters to wind up or liquidate their operations or resulting in some of our gaming promoters leaving macau. current and any future difficulties could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. increased competition for the services of gaming promoters may require us to pay increased commission rates to gaming promoters. certain gaming promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in gaming promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with gaming promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to gaming promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure by the gaming promoters with whom we work to comply with macau gaming laws and high standards of probity and integrity might affect our reputation and ability to comply with the requirements of our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. the reputations and probity of the gaming promoters with whom we work are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. we conduct periodic reviews of the probity and compliance programs of our gaming promoters. however, we are not able to control our gaming promoters' compliance with these high standards of probity and integrity, and our gaming promoters may violate provisions in their contracts with us designed to ensure such compliance. in addition, if we enter into a new business relationship with a gaming promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if our gaming promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. furthermore, if any of our gaming promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the gaming promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase our macau operations' obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in our macau operations' concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca is linked to the hong kong dollar, and the two are often used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are no longer linked to the u.s. dollar, the exchange rate for these currencies may severely fluctuate. the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies may also change. because many of our macau operations' payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, our macau operations' obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service our debt. 29 table of contents currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact our macau operations. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of our macau operations. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact our macau operations. our macau subsidiaries' indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our macau subsidiaries' debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. in the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our macau subsidiaries' unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. wynn macau, limited, an indirect majority owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau and wynn palace, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited in october 2009. as of december 31, 2017, wynn resorts owns approximately 72% of wynn macau, limited's ordinary shares of common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. the macau government has established a maximum number of gaming tables that can be operated in macau and has limited the number of new gaming tables at new gaming areas in macau. in connection with the opening of wynn palace, the dicj authorized 100 new table games for operation at wynn palace, with 25 additional table games authorized for operation on january 1, 2017, and a further 25 new table games for operation on january 1, 2018, for a total of 150 new table games in the aggregate. in addition, we have and will continue to transfer table games between wynn macau and wynn palace, subject to the aggregate cap. as of february 15, 2018, we had a total of 316 table games at wynn macau and 323 at wynn palace. the mix of table games in operation at wynn macau and wynn palace changes from time to time as a result of marketing and operating strategies in response to changing market demand and industry competition. failure to shift the mix of our table games in anticipation of market demands and industry trends may negatively impact our operating results. risks related to share ownership and stockholder matters our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. as of december 31, 2017, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn owned 12,131,707 shares and 9,539,077 shares, respectively, or in the aggregate approximately 21.1%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders' approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. under the stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn have agreed to vote the shares of wynn resorts' common stock held by them that are subject to the terms of the stockholders agreement in a manner so as to elect to our board of directors each of the nominees contained on each and every slate of directors endorsed by mr. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, exercises significant influence over the slate of directors to be elected to wynn resorts' board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the stockholders agreement requires the written consent of the other party prior to any party selling any shares of wynn resorts' common stock that it owns. in june 2012, in connection with the pending litigation between the company and aruze, elaine p. wynn submitted a cross claim against mr. wynn and mr. okada seeking to void the stockholders agreement. the cross claim, if successful, could increase the possibility of a change in control under the wynn las vegas, llc debt documents. on february 12, 2018, counsel for mr. wynn advised the court hearing this matter that mr. wynn now agrees that the stockholders agreement no longer binds either mr. wynn or elaine p. wynn. there can be no assurance that the court will concur with the position now taken by 30 table of contents mr. wynn, or that the stockholders agreement will in fact be deemed to no longer bind the parties thereto. for additional information on the cross claim, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." in november 2006, the board of directors of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts' common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze from nevada's acquisition of controlling interest statutes. in light of the determination by the board of directors on february 18, 2012 that each of the okada parties is an "unsuitable person" under the company's articles of incorporation and the redemption and cancellation of aruze's shares of company common stock, our fifth amended and restated bylaws amended these provisions to delete the reference to aruze and its affiliates. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a "controlling interest" as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of these bylaw provisions, mr. wynn or his affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting him or them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the company in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the company's stockholders granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. our stock price may be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general united states, china, and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, increased competition, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, changes in applicable laws or regulations, and changes affecting the travel industry, and other events impacting our business. the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. risks related to our indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2017 , we had total outstanding debt of approximately $9.63 billion , which includes a portion of the funds we expect to need for the development and construction of our current projects. we may, however, incur additional indebtedness in connection with the construction of these projects. see item 1 business "construction and development opportunities." in addition, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our wynn macau credit facilities, our wynn america credit facilities and our wynn las vegas, llc indentures in connection with other future potential development plans. on february 18, 2012, we issued a redemption note with a principal amount of approximately $1.94 billion in redemption of all of the shares of wynn resorts common stock held by aruze. as of december 31, 2017, the fair value of the redemption note was $1.88 billion . for additional information on the redemption and the redemption note, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies." our indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: failure to meet our payment obligations or other obligations could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, foreclosure upon our assets that serve as collateral or bankruptcy and trigger cross defaults under other agreements; servicing our indebtedness requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of our las vegas and macau operations and reduces the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital and other cash requirements or pay for other capital expenditures; the okada parties have challenged the redemption of aruze's shares and we are currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related stockholder derivative litigation. the outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties including current or former investors or regulators. any 31 table of contents adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 14, "commitments and contingencies"; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed; and rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and a minimum earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. for more information on financial covenants we are subject to under our debt facilities, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 7, "long-term debt." future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member's interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; undergo a change of control; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events outside of our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. if our properties' operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants, causing a default under our agreements, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders or holders of our debt taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets or cause all outstanding amounts to be due and payable immediately. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential losses due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings, supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments as of december 31, 2017 , of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates as of december 31, 2017 of 1.57% and 1.19%, respectively, were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. 64 table of contents the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ 1,936.4 $ 4,550.0 $ 6,486.4 average interest rate % % % % 2.0 % 5.2 % 4.3 % variable rate $ 62.7 $ 282.8 $ 616.9 $ 2,336.4 $ $ $ 3,298.8 average interest rate 3.2 % 3.2 % 3.2 % 3.2 % % % 3.2 % interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 66.3% of the principal amount of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2017 , an assumed 100 basis point change in the variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $33.0 million . foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau sa's concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. we expect most of the revenues and expenses for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars or macau patacas. for any u.s. dollar-denominated debt or other obligations incurred by our macau-related entities, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service debt. based on our balances as of december 31, 2017 , an assumed 1% change in the us dollar/hong kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of $25.2 million . 65 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, regarding matters that could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our business the controversy, regulatory action, litigation and investigations related to stephen a. wynn and his separation from the company could significantly harm our business. on february 6, 2018, mr. wynn resigned as ceo and chairman of the board of directors after allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by mr. wynn in the workplace were reported in a january 26, 2018 wall street journal article. the resulting controversy related to mr. wynn and his separation from the company could significantly harm our business in numerous ways, including in ways that we cannot predict. as discussed elsewhere in this form 10-k, our gaming regulators in massachusetts and nevada have investigated the situation. our nevada gaming regulators have completed their investigation and, on february 26, 2019, fined the company $20.0 million. each of our regulatory authorities has extensive power to license and oversee the operations of our casino resorts and could take action against the company and its related licensees, including actions that could affect the ability or terms upon which our subsidiaries hold their gaming licenses and concessions, and the suitability of the company to continue as a stockholder of those subsidiaries. as discussed in item 3 "legal proceedings" and item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 15 , "commitments and contingencies," lawsuits have been filed against the company and our board of directors arising out of the allegations against mr. wynn, and such claims present a number of risks, including distraction of management, assertions that could affect our reputation, and potential legal liabilities. additional allegations have been and may in the future be asserted against the company, and additional regulatory or legal proceedings involving the company may be commenced in the future. in addition, the company's integrated resort business model was pioneered by mr. wynn. our business, reputation, and competitive position may now suffer as a result of our prior association with mr. wynn, or as a result of his separation from the company and the loss of his skills and experience. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities could have a negative effect on our business. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations in the jurisdictions in which our resorts are located. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the ngc may require the holder of any debt or securities that we or wynn las vegas, llc issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts' securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. the company's articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by such unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. nevada and massachusetts regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approvals; approve changes in our operations; and levy fines or require forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. complying with gaming laws, regulations and license requirements is costly. any change in the nevada and massachusetts laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures and forfeit assets, and would negatively affect our gaming operations. 16 table of contents our macau operations are subject to unique risks. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of our macau operations' concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we are subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau's gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the applicable u.s. gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. as discussed in item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 15, "commitments and contingencies," in connection with the allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by mr. wynn in the workplace reported in a january 26, 2018 wall street journal article, gaming regulators in massachusetts and nevada conducted investigations. our nevada gaming regulators have completed their investigation and, on february 26, 2019, fined the company $20.0 million. each of these regulatory authorities has extensive power to license and oversee the operations of our casino resorts and has taken action and could take action against the company and its related licensees, including actions that could affect the ability or terms upon which our subsidiaries hold their gaming licenses and concessions, and the suitability of the company to continue as a stockholder of those affiliates. ongoing investigations, litigation and other disputes could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny from regulators. on january 26, 2018, the company's board of directors formed a special committee comprised solely of independent directors to investigate allegations of inappropriate personal conduct by mr. wynn in the workplace. on february 12, 2018, the special committee amended and restated its charter to provide for a review of various governance issues regarding knowledge of the allegations and a comprehensive review of the company's internal policies and procedures with the goal of employing best practices to maintain a safe and respectful workplace for all employees. on august 3, 2018, the board received the final oral presentation from the special committee. the special committee provided a written memorialization to the company's gaming regulators in massachusetts and nevada to cooperate with their respective investigations. our nevada gaming regulators have completed their investigation and, on february 26, 2019, fined the company $20.0 million. as discussed in item 3 "legal proceedings" and item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 15 , "commitments and contingencies," lawsuits have been filed against the company and our board of directors arising out of the allegations against mr. wynn, and such claims present a number of risks, including distraction of management, assertions that could affect our reputation, and potential legal liabilities. additional allegations have been and may in the future be asserted against mr. wynn and/or the company, and additional regulatory or legal proceedings involving the company may be commenced in the future. the foregoing investigations, litigation and other disputes and any additional such matters that may arise in the future, can be expensive and may divert management's attention from the operations of our businesses. the investigations, litigation and other disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company's gaming licenses and the company's ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. in addition, the actions, litigation and publicity could negatively impact our business, reputation and competitive position and could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wml and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. we depend on the continued services of key managers and employees. if we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team. the loss of services of our senior managers or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of global economic conditions. consumer demand for casino/hotel resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to changes in the global economy, which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general global economic conditions, high unemployment, weakness in housing or oil markets, perceived or actual changes in disposable 17 table of contents consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the global economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism have in the past and could in the future reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. also, consumer demographics and preferences may evolve over time, which, for example, has resulted in growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and react to those trends and any failure to do so may negatively impact our operating results. demand for our products and services in macau and las vegas may be negatively impacted by international relations, economic disruptions in mainland china, visa restrictions placed on citizens of mainland china, the anti-corruption campaign, restrictions on international money transfers or similar campaigns. a significant amount of our gaming revenues in macau and las vegas come from customers from mainland china. economic disruption, international relations, contraction and uncertainty in china could impact the number of patrons visiting our macau and las vegas properties or the amount they spend. in addition, policies adopted from time to time by governments, including any travel restrictions imposed on chinese citizens such as restrictions imposed on exit visas or restrictions on united states visitor visas, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our properties. it is not known when, or if, policies restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens will be put in place and such policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. furthermore, the chinese government's continuing anti-corruption campaign has influenced the behavior of chinese consumers and their spending patterns both domestically and abroad. that campaign, as well as mainland chinese and macau monetary outflow policies have specifically led to tighter monetary transfer regulations, real-time monitoring of certain financial channels, limitations on cash withdrawals from atm machines by mainland china citizens, reduction of annual withdrawal limits from bank accounts while the account holder is outside of mainland china, and "know your client" protocols implemented on atm machines. these policies may affect and impact the number of visitors and the amount of money they spend. the overall effect of the campaign and monetary transfer restrictions may negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel to and spend time at our resorts. acts or the threat of acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air and other travel and may otherwise negatively impact tourists' willingness to visit our resorts. such events or developments could reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. most of our customers travel to reach our las vegas and macau properties. acts of terrorism or concerns over the possibility of such acts may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to las vegas and macau, including our properties. regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war or worldwide infectious disease outbreak would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. furthermore, the attack in las vegas on october 1, 2017 underscores the possibility that large public facilities could become the target of mass shootings or other attacks in the future. the occurrence or the possibility of attacks could cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising from death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attack; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums, all of which could adversely affect our results. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain the reputation of our resorts. our strategy and integrated resort business model rely on positive perceptions of our resorts and the level of service we provide. any deterioration in our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation could be negatively impacted by our failure to deliver the superior design and customer service for which we are known or by events that are beyond our control. our reputation may also suffer as a result of negative publicity regarding the company or our resorts, including as a result of social media reports, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity. the continued expansion of media and social media formats has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity and has made it more difficult to control and effectively manage negative publicity. 18 table of contents we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are currently entirely dependent upon our macau operations and las vegas operations for all of our operating cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: changes in local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations, and the way in which those laws and regulations are applied; natural and other disasters, including the outbreak of infectious diseases; an increase in the cost of maintaining our properties; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; and a decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. we are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. we conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. in addition, our subsidiaries' debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. we expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. an inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends and distributions would have a significant negative effect on our liquidity. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition, which may increase in the future. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three subconcessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires have opened facilities in the cotai area over the past few years, which has significantly increased gaming and non-gaming offerings in macau, with continued development and further openings in cotai expected in the near future. our macau operations face competition from casinos located in singapore, the philippines and malaysia. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries, such as japan, are successful, we will face additional regional competition. our las vegas operations compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with other casino/hotel facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from wynn las vegas. increased competition could result in a loss of customers, which may negatively affect our cash flows and results of operations. 19 table of contents our business relies on premium, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of premium international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. the casino credit we extend is generally unsecured and due on demand. we will extend casino credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. macau operations. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, our macau operations may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that our macau operations will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue, including the face value of credit instruments issued. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on the full amount of the credit instrument. las vegas operations. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a "marker," are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. the gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. in addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played, the amount of time played and undiscovered acts of fraud or cheating. our gross gaming revenues are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. acts of fraud or cheating through the use of counterfeit chips, covert schemes and other tactics, possibly in collusion with our employees, may be attempted or committed by our gaming customers with the aim of increasing their winnings. our gaming customers, visitors and employees may also commit crimes such as theft in order to obtain chips not belonging to them. we have taken measures to safeguard our interests including the implementation of systems, processes and technologies to mitigate against these risks, extensive employee training, surveillance, security and investigation operations and adoption of appropriate security features on our chips such as embedded radio frequency identification tags. despite our efforts, we may not be successful in preventing or detecting such culpable behavior and schemes in a timely manner and the relevant insurance we have obtained may not be sufficient to cover our losses depending on the incident, which could result in losses to our gaming operations and generate negative publicity, both of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. 20 table of contents our new projects may not be successful. in addition to the construction and regulatory risks associated with our current and future construction projects, we cannot assure you that the level of consumer demand for our casino resorts or for the type of luxury amenities that we will offer will meet our expectations. the operating results of our new projects may be materially different than the operating results of our current integrated resorts due to, among other reasons, differences in consumer and corporate spending and preferences in new geographic areas, increased competition from other markets or other developments that may be beyond our control. in addition, our new projects may be more sensitive to certain risks, including risks associated with downturns in the economy, than the resorts we currently operate. the demands imposed by new developments on our managerial, operational and other resources may impact our operation of our existing resorts. if any of these issues were to occur, it could adversely affect our prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. we could encounter higher than expected cost increases in the development of our projects. we are currently constructing encore boston harbor in everett, massachusetts. the total project budget for encore boston harbor, including gaming license fees, construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses and land costs, is estimated to be approximately $2.6 billion . additionally, the company is currently constructing approximately 430,000 square feet of additional meeting and convention space at wynn las vegas and has begun design and site preparation for the reconfiguration of the wynn las vegas golf course, which the company closed in the fourth quarter of 2017. based on current designs, we estimate the total project budget for the additional meeting and convention space and reconfiguration of the golf course to be approximately $425 million . we also have other capital expenditure projects, including in macau, as discussed in item 1 " business - construction and development opportunities for additional details. the projected development costs for our projects reflect our best estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. contingencies that have been set aside by us to cover potential cost overruns or potential delays may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns or delays. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, or if we are not able to recover damages for these delays and contingencies, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and this project may not be completed. failure to complete this project may negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to pay our debt. construction projects will be subject to development and construction risks, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. major construction projects of the scope and scale of encore boston harbor and the redevelopment of the wynn las vegas golf course land entail significant risks, including: unanticipated cost increases; shortages of, and price increases in, materials or skilled labor; changes to plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, real estate development or construction projects; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environment, health and safety issues, including site accidents; delays or interference from severe weather or natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our projects. 21 table of contents we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of the subcontractor's work and payment for all of that subcontractor's labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. our facilities currently under development may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for the projects may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete the projects on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. we are currently required to commence gaming operations at encore boston harbor by june 2020. if we are unable to meet this deadline, the massachusetts gaming commission may suspend or revoke our gaming license. pursuant to the gaming act, the company is required to commence gaming operations at encore boston harbor approximately one year from our projected opening date of mid-2019. if the company is unable to meet the june 2020 deadline and is unable to obtain an extension of the deadline from the mgc, the mgc may suspend or revoke our gaming license and, if we are found by the mgc after a hearing to have acted in bad faith, we will be assessed a fine of up to $50,000,000. failure to meet the deadline could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from this planned facility. any violation of applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations or the foreign corrupt practices act could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various jurisdictions' reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. both u.s. and macau governmental authorities focus heavily on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. from time to time, the company receives governmental and regulatory inquiries about compliance with such laws and regulations. the company cooperates with all such inquiries. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. further, we have operations, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived outside of the united states. we are therefore subject to regulations imposed by the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to such laws and regulations. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if we or our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions, which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. in february 2012, the company received a report detailing instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of wynn resorts' shares) and certain of his affiliates. while the company's regulators have not taken any action against the company in connection with the allegations in such report, a finding by regulatory authorities that mr. okada violated the fcpa on company property could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the company, which could negatively affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third 22 table of contents parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. contamination has been identified at and in the vicinity of our site in everett, massachusetts. the ultimate cost of remediating contaminated sites is difficult to accurately predict and we exceeded our initial estimates. we may be required to conduct additional investigations and remediation with respect to this site. as a result, we also could incur material costs in excess of our estimates as a result of additional cleanup obligations imposed or contamination identified in the future. however, the environmental laws under which we operate are complicated and often increasingly more stringent, and may be applied retroactively. although our proposed expenditures related to environmental matters are not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we may be required to make additional expenditures to remain in, or to achieve compliance with, environmental laws in the future. compliance with changing laws and regulations may result in additional expenses and compliance risks. changing laws and regulations are creating uncertainty for gaming companies. these changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. in addition, further regulation of casinos, financial institutions and public companies is possible. this could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. in addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the laws and regulations related to taxation, including changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, our ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption on gaming profits and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could change our overall effective rate of taxation. system failure, information leakage and the cost of maintaining sufficient cybersecurity could adversely affect our business. we rely on information technology and other systems (including those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services) to maintain and transmit large volumes of customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information and other personally identifiable information. we also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. the systems and processes we have implemented to protect customers, employees and company information are subject to the ever-changing risk of compromised security. these risks include cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third-party vendors. the steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful and our insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, phishing attacks, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors and other events. cyber-attacks are becoming increasingly more difficult to anticipate and prevent due to their rapidly evolving nature and, as a result, the technology we use to protect our systems from being breached or compromised could become outdated due to advances in computer capabilities or other technological developments. 23 table of contents any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or by a third party, could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to risks of litigation, significant fines and penalties and liability, result in the deterioration of our customers' and employees' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our employees, customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility and reduce our ability to attract and retain employees and customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and our infrastructure, including the implementation of new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems, deployment of additional personnel and protection-related technologies, engagement of third-party consultants, and training of employees. the occurrence of any of the cyber incidents described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. the failure to protect the integrity and security of company employee and customer information could result in damage to reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. our business uses and transmits large volumes of employee and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information in various information systems that we maintain in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. our customers and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. our collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations, and privacy law is an area that changes often and varies significantly by jurisdiction. for example, the european union (eu)'s general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018 and replaced the old data protection laws of each eu member state, requires companies to meet new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data. the gdpr captures data processing by non-eu firms with no eu establishment as long as firms' processing relates to offering goods or services or the monitoring of individuals in the eu. in addition to governmental regulations, there are credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards we must comply with as well. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. for example, failure to meet the gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to four percent of worldwide revenue. any misappropriation of confidential or personally identifiable information gathered, stored or used by us, be it intentional or accidental, could have a material impact on the operation of our business, including severely damaging our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees and investors. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including processing payments, accounting for and reporting financial results, and managing our employees and employee benefit programs. given the complexity of our business, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, technical malfunctions, inadequate system capacity, power outages, natural disasters, and usage errors by our employees or third-party consultants. if our information technology systems become damaged or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to repair or replace them. additionally, confidential or sensitive data related to our customers or employees could be lost or compromised. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of "wynn," are among our most valuable assets. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include "wynn resorts," "wynn design and development," "wynn las vegas," "wynn macau," "wynn palace" and "encore." some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. 24 table of contents a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname "wynn." as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired "secondary meaning." to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn's historical prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. furthermore, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. there has been an increase in the international operation of fraudulent online gambling and investment websites attempting to scam and defraud members of the public. we do not offer online gambling or investment accounts. websites offering these or similar activities and opportunities that use our names or similar names or images in likeness to ours, are doing so without our authorization and possibly unlawfully and with criminal intent. if our efforts to cause these sites to be shut down through civil action and by reporting these sites to the appropriate authorities (where applicable) are unsuccessful or not timely completed, these unauthorized activities may continue and harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. labor actions and other labor problems could negatively impact our operations. some of our employees are represented by labor unions. from time to time, we have experienced attempts by labor organizations to organize certain of our non-union employees. these efforts have achieved some success to date. we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and successful union activity in the future. the impact of any union activity is undetermined and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including losses resulting from terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. however, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain in the future or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain catastrophic losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, if we suffer such a catastrophic loss, we may not be successful in obtaining future insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. furthermore, our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition. 25 table of contents risks associated with our macau operations our macau operations may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. our macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. the future success of our macau operations will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. for example, fiscal decline, international relations, and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions, laws or regulations that might impede our macau operations or our ability to repatriate funds. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension or renewal of our concession, or a new concession, by june 26, 2022, or if the macau government exercises its redemption right. the term of our concession agreement with the macau government ends on june 26, 2022. unless the term of our concession agreement is extended or our concession is renewed, subject to any separate arrangement with the macau government, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations at the end of the term of our concession agreement. the macau government has publicly commented that it is studying the process by which concessions and subconcessions may be renewed, extended or issued. effective june 2017, the macau government may redeem our concession agreement by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the remaining years under our concession. we are considering various options to place us in a good position for the renewal, extension or application process; however, we may not be able to extend our concession agreement or renew our concession or obtain a new concession on terms favorable to us or at all. if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid to us may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the redemption of or failure to extend or renew our concession or obtain a new concession would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in hiring and retaining employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. in addition, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos. competition for these individuals in macau has increased and will continue to increase as other competitors expand their operations. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resorts and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. despite our coordination with the macau labor and immigration authorities to assure that our labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or obtain required work permits for those employees. if we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in macau could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the smoking control legislation in macau could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in 2014, the macau government approved additional smoking control legislation, which prohibited smoking in casinos starting on october 6, 2014. the legislation, however, permitted casinos to maintain certain limited smoking areas open to vip patrons if certain stringent conditions were met, as enhanced from time to time. smoking was also permitted in approved smoking lounges if certain stringent technical standards were met. in 2017, the macau government approved additional smoking control legislation that came into effect on january 1, 2018 banning smoking in all casino areas other than in approved smoking lounges by december 31, 2018. the new smoking control legislation also requires casinos to upgrade any existing smoking lounges in mass gaming areas and construct new smoking lounges in vip gaming areas for inspection and approval in accordance with further enhanced technical standards by december 31, 2018. although we have approved smoking lounges at both wynn macau and wynn palace, the smoking ban may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in macau and disrupt the number of patrons visiting or the amount of time visiting patrons spend gaming at our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 table of contents macau may not have adequate transportation services, infrastructure and related facilities to accommodate the demand of visitors to macau. transportation services, infrastructure and related facilities within macau and between macau, hong kong and mainland china may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation to macau driven by additional casino projects and attractions that are under construction and to be developed in the future as well as the opening of the hong kong-zhuhai-macau bridge which may further strain existing transportation infrastructure. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of our macau operations, could be negatively impacted. furthermore, construction of current and future casino and infrastructure projects, adjacent to our properties could impede access to our properties during construction and development. this may negatively impact the results of our macau operations. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on our macau operations. macau's subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms, such as typhoon hato in 2017. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resorts and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. if our macau operations fail to comply with the concession agreement, the macau government can terminate our concession without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement of our macau operations if it: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, our macau operations will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. certain nevada gaming laws apply to our macau operations' gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the ngc if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct our macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; 27 table of contents engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the ngc for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the ngc finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the ngc find that our macau-related subsidiary's gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. we depend upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. we may lose the clientele of our gaming promoters, who generate a significant portion of our gaming revenue. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by gaming promoters, which has intensified as additional casinos open in macau. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, or lose a significant number of our gaming promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. the financial resources of our gaming promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business in macau which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. our gaming promoters may experience difficulty in attracting patrons. economic and political factors in the region may cause our gaming promoters to experience difficulties in their macau operations, including intensified competition in attracting patrons to come to macau. further, gaming promoters may face a decrease in liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, and difficulties in collecting credit they extended previously. the inability to attract sufficient patrons, grant credit and collect amounts due in a timely manner may negatively affect our gaming promoters' operations, causing gaming promoters to wind up or liquidate their operations or resulting in some of our gaming promoters leaving macau. current and any future difficulties could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. increased competition for the services of gaming promoters may require us to pay increased commission rates to gaming promoters. certain gaming promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in gaming promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with gaming promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to gaming promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 28 table of contents failure by the gaming promoters with whom we work to comply with macau gaming laws and high standards of probity and integrity might affect our reputation and ability to comply with the requirements of our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. the reputations and probity of the gaming promoters with whom we work are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. we conduct periodic reviews of the probity and compliance programs of our gaming promoters. however, we are not able to control our gaming promoters' compliance with these high standards of probity and integrity, and our gaming promoters may violate provisions in their contracts with us designed to ensure such compliance. in addition, if we enter into a new business relationship with a gaming promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if our gaming promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. furthermore, if any of our gaming promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the gaming promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase our macau operations' obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in our macau operations' concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca is linked to the hong kong dollar, and the two are often used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are no longer linked to the u.s. dollar, the exchange rate for these currencies may severely fluctuate. the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies may also change. because many of our macau operations' payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, our macau operations' obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service our debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact our macau operations. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of our macau operations. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact our macau operations. our macau subsidiaries' indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our macau subsidiaries' debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. in the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and then would the holders of our macau subsidiaries' unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets, and only then would we, as a holder of capital stock, be entitled to distribution of any remaining assets. 29 table of contents conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. wynn macau, limited, an indirect majority owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau and wynn palace, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited in october 2009. as of december 31, 2018 , wynn resorts owns approximately 72% of wynn macau, limited's ordinary shares of common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. the macau government has established a maximum number of gaming tables that can be operated in macau and has limited the number of new gaming tables at new gaming areas in macau. in connection with the opening of wynn palace, the dicj authorized 100 new table games for operation at wynn palace, with 25 additional table games authorized for operation on january 1, 2017, and a further 25 new table games for operation on january 1, 2018, for a total of 150 new table games in the aggregate. in addition, we have and will continue to transfer table games between wynn palace and wynn macau, subject to the aggregate cap. as of february 20, 2019 , we had a total of 320 table games at wynn palace and 317 at wynn macau. the mix of table games in operation at wynn palace and wynn macau changes from time to time as a result of marketing and operating strategies in response to changing market demand and industry competition. failure to shift the mix of our table games in anticipation of market demands and industry trends may negatively impact our operating results. risks related to share ownership and stockholder matters our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. as of december 31, 2018 , elaine p. wynn was our second largest shareholder and owned 9,539,077 shares, or approximately 9%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, elaine p. wynn may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders' approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. on august 3, 2018, we entered into a cooperation agreement (the "cooperation agreement") with elaine p. wynn regarding the composition of the company's board of directors and certain other matters, including, among other things, the appointment of mr. philip g. satre to the company's board of directors, standstill restrictions, releases, non-disparagement and reimbursement of expenses. the term of the cooperation agreement expires on the day after the conclusion of the 2020 annual meeting of the company's stockholders, unless earlier terminated pursuant to the circumstances described in the cooperation agreement. our stock price may be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general united states, china, and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, increased competition, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, changes in applicable laws or regulations, and changes affecting the travel industry, and other events impacting our business. the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 30 table of contents risks related to our indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2018 , we had total outstanding debt of approximately $9.42 billion , which includes a portion of the funds we expect to need for the development and construction of our current projects. we may, however, incur additional indebtedness in connection with the construction of these projects. see item 1 business "construction and development opportunities." in addition, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our wynn macau credit facilities, our wynn america credit facilities and our wynn las vegas, llc indentures in connection with other future potential development plans. our indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: failure to meet our payment obligations or other obligations could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, foreclosure upon our assets that serve as collateral or bankruptcy and trigger cross defaults under other agreements; servicing our indebtedness requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of our las vegas and macau operations and reduces the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital and other cash requirements or pay for other capital expenditures; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed; and rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase. the interest rates of certain of our credit agreements are tied to the london interbank offered rate, or libor. in july 2017, the head of the united kingdom financial conduct authority announced the desire to phase out the use of libor by the end of 2021. in addition, the u.s. federal reserve, in conjunction with the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee comprised of large us financial institutions, is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with the secured overnight financing rate, or sofr, a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by treasury securities. although there have been a few issuances utilizing sofr or the sterling over night index average, an alternative reference rate that is based on transactions, it is unknown whether these alternative reference rates will attain market acceptance as replacements for libor. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate any of our credit agreements extending beyond 2021 that utilize libor as a factor in determining the interest rate to replace libor with the new standard that is established. there is currently no definitive information regarding the future utilization of libor or of any particular replacement rate. as such, the potential effect of any such event could have on our business and financial condition cannot yet be determined. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and a minimum earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. for more information on financial covenants we are subject to under our debt facilities, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 6 , "long-term debt." future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; 31 table of contents issue stock of, or member's interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; undergo a change of control; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events outside of our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. if our properties' operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants, causing a default under our agreements, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders or holders of our debt taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets or cause all outstanding amounts to be due and payable immediately. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of business, our financial position is subject to market risk, including, but not limited to, potential losses due to changes in the value of financial instruments including those resulting from adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market valuation. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings, supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments as of december 31, 2018 , of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates as of december 31, 2018 of 2.52% and 2.27%, respectively, were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. 61 table of contents the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ 4,010.0 $ 4,510.0 average interest rate % % % % 4.3 % 5.4 % 5.2 % variable rate $ 12.0 $ 275.0 $ 1,193.7 $ 2,455.0 $ 5.0 $ 1,090.0 $ 5,030.7 average interest rate 5.5 % 4.2 % 4.4 % 4.2 % 4.8 % 4.5 % 4.3 % interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 47.3% of the principal amount of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2018 , an assumed 100 basis point change in the variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $50.3 million . foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau sa's concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. we expect most of the revenues and expenses for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars or macau patacas. for any u.s. dollar-denominated debt or other obligations incurred by our macau-related entities, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service debt. based on our balances as of december 31, 2018 , an assumed 100 basis point change in the us dollar/hong kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of $28.1 million . 62 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, regarding matters that could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our business the outbreak of the novel coronavirus ("coronavirus") has had and will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in january 2020, an outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus, covid-19, was identified in wuhan, china. currently, no fully effective vaccines have been developed and there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered in time to protect against a potential pandemic. in response, on february 4, 2020, the macau government announced the closure of all casino operations in macau, including those at wynn palace and wynn macau, for a period of 15 days. on february 20, 2020, our casino operations at wynn palace and wynn macau reopened on a reduced basis, and are expected to fully reopen by march 20, 2020 (the deadline set by the macau government for macau casinos to fully reopen). since reopening, all casinos in macau are subject to a number of government procedures which address the health and safety of staff and patrons, including limitations on the spacing of open tables and slot machines to ensure adequate distance between people, stopping patrons from congregating together, limiting the number of players and spectators at a table to three to four, temperature checks, mask protection, and health declarations. visitation to macau has fallen precipitously since the outbreak of coronavirus, driven by the chinese government's suspension of its visa and group tour schemes that allow mainland chinese residents to travel to macau, quarantines in certain cities in mainland china, and the suspension by the hong kong government of ferry service from hong kong to macau until further notice. the us government has put in place restrictions on travel to the us from mainland china, and could expand the restrictions. a significant portion of our us business relies on the willingness and ability of premium international customers to travel to the us, including from mainland china. as such, our las vegas operations and operations at encore boston harbor may also be adversely impacted. the coronavirus outbreak has had and will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. given the uncertainty around the extent and timing of the potential future spread or mitigation of the coronavirus and around the imposition or relaxation of protective measures, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact to our future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities could have a negative effect on our business. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations in the jurisdictions in which our resorts are located. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the ngc may require the holder of any debt or securities that we or wynn las vegas, llc issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts' securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. the company's articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company's or any affiliate's application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts' capital stock that are owned or controlled by such unsuitable person or its affiliates are 17 table of contents subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. nevada and massachusetts regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approvals; approve changes in our operations; and levy fines or require forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. complying with gaming laws, regulations and license requirements is costly. any change in the nevada and massachusetts laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures and forfeit assets, and would negatively affect our gaming operations. our macau operations are subject to unique risks. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of our macau operations' concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we are subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau's gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the applicable u.s. gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. each of these regulatory authorities has extensive power to license and oversee the operations of our casino resorts and has taken action and could take action against the company and its related licensees, including actions that could affect the ability or terms upon which our subsidiaries hold their gaming licenses and concessions, and the suitability of the company to continue as a stockholder of those affiliates. ongoing investigations, litigation and other disputes could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny from regulators. as discussed in item 3 "legal proceedings" and item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 17, "commitments and contingencies," the company is subject to various claims related to our operations. these foregoing investigations, litigation and other disputes and any additional such matters that may arise in the future, can be expensive and may divert management's attention from the operations of our businesses. the investigations, litigation and other disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company's gaming licenses and the company's ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. in addition, the actions, litigation and publicity could negatively impact our business, reputation and competitive position and could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wml and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. we depend on the continued services of key managers and employees. if we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team. our success depends upon our ability to attract, hire, and retain qualified operating, marketing, financial, and technical personnel in the future. given the intense competition for qualified management personnel in our industry, we may not be able to hire or retain the required personnel. the loss of key management and operating personnel would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of global economic conditions. consumer demand for casino/hotel resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to changes in the global economy, which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general global economic conditions, high unemployment, weakness in housing or oil markets, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the global economy, perceived or actual health risks related to outbreaks of infectious disease, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism have in the past and could in the future reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. 18 table of contents also, consumer demographics and preferences may evolve over time, which, for example, has resulted in growth in consumer demand for non-gaming offerings. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the preferences of consumers and react to those trends and any failure to do so may negatively impact our operating results. demand for our products and services in macau and las vegas may be negatively impacted by international relations, economic disruptions in mainland china, visa restrictions placed on citizens of mainland china, the anti-corruption campaign, restrictions on international money transfers or similar campaigns. a significant amount of our gaming revenues in macau and las vegas come from customers from mainland china. economic disruption, international relations, contraction and uncertainty in china could impact the number of patrons visiting our macau and las vegas properties or the amount they spend. in addition, policies adopted from time to time by governments, including any travel restrictions imposed on chinese citizens such as restrictions imposed on exit visas or restrictions on united states visitor visas, could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our properties. it is not known when, or if, policies restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens will be put in place and such policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. furthermore, the chinese government's continuing anti-corruption campaign has influenced the behavior of chinese consumers and their spending patterns both domestically and abroad. that campaign, as well as mainland chinese and macau monetary outflow policies have specifically led to tighter monetary transfer regulations, real-time monitoring of certain financial channels, limitations on cash withdrawals from atm machines by mainland china citizens, reduction of annual withdrawal limits from bank accounts while the account holder is outside of mainland china, and "know your client" protocols implemented on atm machines. these policies may affect and impact the number of visitors and the amount of money they spend. the overall effect of the campaign and monetary transfer restrictions may negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel to and spend time at our resorts. acts or the threat of acts of terrorism, outbreak of infectious disease, regional political events and developments in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air and other travel and may otherwise negatively impact tourists' willingness to visit our resorts. such events or developments could reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. most of our customers travel to reach our las vegas and macau properties. acts of terrorism or concerns over the possibility of such acts may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to las vegas and macau, including our properties. regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war or worldwide infectious disease outbreak would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, governmental action and uncertainty resulting from u.s. and global political trends and policies, including potential barriers to travel, trade and immigration can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including visitation to our resorts. furthermore, the attack in las vegas on october 1, 2017 underscores the possibility that large public facilities could become the target of mass shootings or other attacks in the future. the occurrence or the possibility of attacks could cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising from death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attack; and result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums, all of which could adversely affect our results. our continued success depends on our ability to maintain the reputation of our resorts. our strategy and integrated resort business model rely on positive perceptions of our resorts and the level of service we provide. any deterioration in our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation could be negatively impacted by our failure to deliver the superior design and customer service for which we are known or by events that are beyond our control. our reputation may also suffer as a result of negative publicity regarding the company or our resorts, including as a result of social media reports, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity. the continued expansion of media and social media formats has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity and has made it more difficult to control and effectively manage negative publicity. 19 table of contents we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are currently entirely dependent upon our macau operations, las vegas operations and encore boston harbor for all of our operating cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: changes in local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations, and the way in which those laws and regulations are applied; natural and other disasters, including the outbreak of infectious diseases; an increase in the cost of maintaining our properties; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas, macau or boston; and a decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. we are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. we conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. for example, if the coronavirus outbreak continues to interrupt our gaming operations or visitation to macau or if the outbreak escalates, it may have a material adverse effect on our subsidiaries' results of operations and their ability to pay dividends or distributions to us. our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. in addition, our subsidiaries' debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. we expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. an inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends and distributions would have a significant negative effect on our liquidity. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition, which may increase in the future. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three subconcessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. several of the current concessionaires and subconcessionaires have opened facilities in the cotai area over the past few years, which has significantly increased gaming and non-gaming offerings in macau, with continued development and further openings in cotai expected in the near future. our macau operations face competition from casinos located in singapore, south korea, the philippines, vietnam, cambodia, and malaysia. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. additionally, certain other asian countries and regions have legalized or in the future may legalize gaming, such as japan, taiwan and thailand, which could increase competition for our macau operations. our las vegas operations compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with other casino/hotel facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from wynn las vegas. 20 table of contents encore boston harbor competes with other casinos in the northeastern united states. additional competition in the northeast region as a result of the upgrading or expansion of facilities by existing market participants, the entrance of new gaming participants into a market or legislative changes may harm our business. as competing properties and new markets are opened, our operating results may be negatively impacted. increased competition could result in a loss of customers, which may negatively affect our cash flows and results of operations. our business relies on premium, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of premium international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. the casino credit we extend is generally unsecured and due on demand. we will extend casino credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. macau operations. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, our macau operations may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that our macau operations will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue, including the face value of credit instruments issued. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on the full amount of the credit instrument. las vegas operations and encore boston harbor. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a "marker," are enforceable under the current laws of nevada and massachusetts, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. the gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. in addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played, the amount of time played and undiscovered acts of fraud or cheating. our gross gaming revenues are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. acts of fraud or cheating through the use of counterfeit chips, covert schemes and other tactics, possibly in collusion with our employees, may be attempted or committed by our gaming customers with the aim of increasing their winnings. our 21 table of contents gaming customers, visitors and employees may also commit crimes such as theft in order to obtain chips not belonging to them. we have taken measures to safeguard our interests including the implementation of systems, processes and technologies to mitigate against these risks, extensive employee training, surveillance, security and investigation operations and adoption of appropriate security features on our chips such as embedded radio frequency identification tags. despite our efforts, we may not be successful in preventing or detecting such culpable behavior and schemes in a timely manner and the relevant insurance we have obtained may not be sufficient to cover our losses depending on the incident, which could result in losses to our gaming operations and generate negative publicity, both of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. our new projects may not be successful. in addition to the construction and regulatory risks associated with our current and future construction projects, we cannot assure you that the level of consumer demand for our casino resorts or for the type of luxury amenities that we will offer will meet our expectations. the operating results of our new projects may be materially different than the operating results of our current integrated resorts due to, among other reasons, differences in consumer and corporate spending and preferences in new geographic areas, increased competition from other markets or other developments that may be beyond our control. in addition, our new projects may be more sensitive to certain risks, including risks associated with downturns in the economy, than the resorts we currently operate. the demands imposed by new developments on our managerial, operational and other resources may impact our operation of our existing resorts. if any of these issues were to occur, it could adversely affect our prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. we could encounter higher than expected cost increases in the development of our projects. the projected development costs for our projects reflect our best estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. contingencies that have been set aside by us to cover potential cost overruns or potential delays may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns or delays. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, or if we are not able to recover damages for these delays and contingencies, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and this project may not be completed. failure to complete this project may negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to pay our debt. construction projects will be subject to development and construction risks, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. major construction projects of the scope and scale of our resorts entail significant risks, including: unanticipated cost increases; shortages of, and price increases in, materials or skilled labor; changes to plans and specifications; delays in obtaining or inability to obtain requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities; changes in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation and enforcement of laws and regulations, applicable to gaming, leisure, real estate development or construction projects; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; labor disputes or work stoppages; disputes with and defaults by contractors and subcontractors; personal injuries to workers and other persons; environment, health and safety issues, including site accidents; delays or interference from severe weather or natural disasters; geological, construction, excavation, regulatory and equipment problems; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our projects. 22 table of contents we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of the subcontractor's work and payment for all of that subcontractor's labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. our facilities currently under development may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for the projects may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete the projects on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. any violation of applicable anti-money laundering laws, regulations or the foreign corrupt practices act or sanctions could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. we deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various jurisdictions' reporting and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. both u.s. and macau governmental authorities focus heavily on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. from time to time, the company receives governmental and regulatory inquiries about compliance with such laws and regulations. the company cooperates with all such inquiries. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. further, we have operations, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived outside of the united states. we are therefore subject to regulations imposed by the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to such laws and regulations. the office of foreign assets control and the commerce department administer and enforce economic and trade sanctions based on u.s. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations, and individuals. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if we or our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions, which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any such government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions could adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. contamination has been identified at and in the vicinity of our site in everett, massachusetts. the ultimate cost of remediating contaminated sites is difficult to accurately predict and we exceeded our initial estimates. we may be required to conduct additional investigations and remediation with respect to this site. as a result, we also could incur material costs in excess of our estimates as a result of additional cleanup obligations imposed or contamination identified in the future. however, 23 table of contents the environmental laws under which we operate are complicated and often increasingly more stringent, and may be applied retroactively. although our proposed expenditures related to environmental matters are not currently expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we may be required to make additional expenditures to remain in, or to achieve compliance with, environmental laws in the future. adverse incidents or adverse publicity concerning our resorts or our corporate responsibilities could harm our brand and reputation and negatively impact our financial results. our reputation and the value of our brand, including the perception held by our customers, business partners, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business, are important assets. our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities, and risk of damage to our reputation and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as diversity and inclusion, environmental stewardship, supply chain management, sustainability, workplace conduct, human rights, philanthropy, and support for local communities. any harm to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. compliance with changing laws and regulations may result in additional expenses and compliance risks. changing laws and regulations are creating uncertainty for gaming companies. these changing laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, recent issuance and/or lack of guidance. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. in addition, further regulation of casinos, financial institutions and public companies is possible. this could result in continuing uncertainty and higher costs regarding compliance matters. due to our commitment to maintain high standards of compliance with laws and public disclosure, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in and are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expense. in addition, we are subject to different parties' interpretation of our compliance with these new and changing laws and regulations. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the laws and regulations related to taxation, including changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, our ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption on gaming profits and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could change our overall effective rate of taxation. system failure, information leakage and the cost of maintaining sufficient cybersecurity could adversely affect our business. we rely on information technology and other systems (including those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services) to maintain and transmit large volumes of customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information and other personally identifiable information. we also maintain important internal company data such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. the systems and processes we have implemented to protect customers, employees and company information are subject to the ever-changing risk of compromised security. these risks include cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third-party vendors. the steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful and our insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security operations. despite the security measures we currently have in place, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, phishing attacks, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors and other events. cyber-attacks are becoming increasingly more difficult to anticipate and prevent due to their rapidly evolving nature and, as a result, the technology we use to protect our systems from being breached or compromised could become outdated due to advances in computer capabilities or other technological developments. any perceived or actual electronic or physical security breach involving the misappropriation, loss, or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, including penetration of our network security, whether by us or 24 table of contents by a third party, could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and our relationships with our customers or employees, expose us to risks of litigation, significant fines and penalties and liability, result in the deterioration of our customers' and employees' confidence in us, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. since we do not control third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins and security breaches will occur in the future, any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding our employees, customers or website visitors could harm our reputation and credibility and reduce our ability to attract and retain employees and customers. as these threats develop and grow, we may find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and our infrastructure, including the implementation of new computer systems or upgrades to existing systems, deployment of additional personnel and protection-related technologies, engagement of third-party consultants, and training of employees. the occurrence of any of the cyber incidents described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. the failure to protect the integrity and security of company employee and customer information could result in damage to reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. our business uses and transmits large volumes of employee and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information in various information systems that we maintain in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. our customers and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. our collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations, and privacy law is an area that changes often and varies significantly by jurisdiction. for example, the european union (eu)'s general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which became effective in may 2018 and replaced the old data protection laws of each eu member state, requires companies to meet new and more stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data. the gdpr captures data processing by non-eu firms with no eu establishment as long as firms' processing relates to "offering goods or services" or the "monitoring" of individuals in the eu. in addition to governmental regulations, there are credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards we must comply with as well. compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. in addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. for example, failure to meet the gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to four percent of worldwide revenue. any misappropriation of confidential or personally identifiable information gathered, stored or used by us, be it intentional or accidental, could have a material impact on the operation of our business, including severely damaging our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees and investors. our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively. we are dependent on our computer systems to record and process transactions and manage and operate our business, including processing payments, accounting for and reporting financial results, and managing our employees and employee benefit programs. given the complexity of our business, it is imperative that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer hardware and software systems. despite our preventative efforts, our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things, security breaches, computer viruses, technical malfunctions, inadequate system capacity, power outages, natural disasters, and usage errors by our employees or third-party consultants. if our information technology systems become damaged or otherwise cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to repair or replace them. additionally, confidential or sensitive data related to our customers or employees could be lost or compromised. any material disruptions in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of "wynn," are among our most valuable assets. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include "wynn resorts," "wynn design and development," "wynn las vegas," "wynn macau," "wynn palace," "encore," and "encore boston harbor." some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. 25 table of contents a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname "wynn." as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired "secondary meaning." to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn's historical prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. furthermore, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. there has been an increase in the international operation of fraudulent online gambling and investment websites attempting to scam and defraud members of the public. we do not offer online gambling or investment accounts. websites offering these or similar activities and opportunities that use our names or similar names or images in likeness to ours, are doing so without our authorization and possibly unlawfully and with criminal intent. if our efforts to cause these sites to be shut down through civil action and by reporting these sites to the appropriate authorities (where applicable) are unsuccessful or not timely completed, these unauthorized activities may continue and harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. labor actions and other labor problems could negatively impact our operations. some of our employees are represented by labor unions. from time to time, we have experienced attempts by labor organizations to organize certain of our non-union employees. these efforts have achieved some success to date. we cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and successful union activity in the future. the impact of any union activity is undetermined and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including losses resulting from terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. however, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain in the future or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain catastrophic losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, if we suffer such a catastrophic loss, we may not be successful in obtaining future insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. furthermore, our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition. 26 table of contents risks associated with our macau operations our macau operations may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. our macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. the future success of our macau operations will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. for example, fiscal decline, international relations, and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions, laws or regulations that might impede our macau operations or our ability to repatriate funds. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension or renewal of our concession, or a new concession, by june 26, 2022, or if the macau government exercises its redemption right. the term of our concession agreement with the macau government ends on june 26, 2022. unless the term of our concession agreement is extended or our concession is renewed, subject to any separate arrangement with the macau government, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations at the end of the term of our concession agreement. the macau government has publicly commented that it is studying the process by which concessions and subconcessions may be renewed, extended or issued. effective june 2017, the macau government may redeem our concession agreement by providing us at least one year's prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the remaining years under our concession. we are considering various options to place us in a good position for the renewal, extension or application process; however, we may not be able to extend our concession agreement or renew our concession or obtain a new concession on terms favorable to us or at all. if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid to us may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the redemption of or failure to extend or renew our concession or obtain a new concession would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in hiring and retaining employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. in addition, the macau government requires that we only hire macau residents as dealers in our casinos. competition for these individuals in macau has increased and will continue to increase as other competitors expand their operations. we have to seek employees from outside macau to adequately staff our resorts and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. despite our coordination with the macau labor and immigration authorities to assure that our labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or obtain required work permits for those employees. if we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in macau could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the smoking control legislation in macau could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under the macau smoking prevention and tobacco control law, as of january 1, 2019, smoking on casino premises is only permitted in authorized segregated smoking lounges with no gaming activities and such smoking lounges are required to comply with the conditions set out in the regulations. the existing smoking legislation, and any smoking legislation intended to fully ban all smoking in casinos, may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in macau and disrupt the number of patrons visiting or the amount of time visiting patrons spend at our property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 27 table of contents macau may not have adequate transportation services, infrastructure and related facilities to accommodate the demand of visitors to macau. transportation services, infrastructure and related facilities within macau and between macau, hong kong and mainland china may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation to macau driven by additional casino projects and attractions that are under construction and to be developed in the future as well as the opening of the hong kong-zhuhai-macau bridge which may further strain existing transportation infrastructure. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of our macau operations, could be negatively impacted. furthermore, construction of current and future casino and infrastructure projects, adjacent to our properties could impede access to our properties during construction and development. this may negatively impact the results of our macau operations. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on our macau operations. macau's subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms, such as typhoon mangkhut in 2018 and typhoon hato in 2017. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resorts and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. the occurrence and timing of such events cannot be predicted or controlled by us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. if our macau operations fail to comply with the concession agreement, the macau government can terminate our concession without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement of our macau operations if it: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, our macau operations will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. certain nevada gaming laws apply to our macau operations' gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the ngc if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct our macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of 28 table of contents nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the ngc for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the ngc finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the ngc find that our macau-related subsidiary's gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. we depend upon gaming promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. we may lose the clientele of our gaming promoters, who generate a significant portion of our gaming revenue. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by gaming promoters, which has intensified as additional casinos open in macau. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable gaming promoters, or lose a significant number of our gaming promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our gaming promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. the financial resources of our gaming promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business in macau which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. our gaming promoters may experience difficulty in attracting patrons. economic and political factors in the region may cause our gaming promoters to experience difficulties in their macau operations, including intensified competition in attracting patrons to come to macau. further, gaming promoters may face a decrease in liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, and difficulties in collecting credit they extended previously. the inability to attract sufficient patrons, grant credit and collect amounts due in a timely manner may negatively affect our gaming promoters' operations, causing gaming promoters to wind up or liquidate their operations or resulting in some of our gaming promoters leaving macau. current and any future difficulties could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. increased competition for the services of gaming promoters may require us to pay increased commission rates to gaming promoters. certain gaming promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in gaming promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with gaming promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to gaming promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 29 table of contents failure by the gaming promoters with whom we work to comply with macau gaming laws and high standards of probity and integrity might affect our reputation and ability to comply with the requirements of our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. the reputations and probity of the gaming promoters with whom we work are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. we conduct periodic reviews of the probity and compliance programs of our gaming promoters. however, we are not able to control our gaming promoters' compliance with these high standards of probity and integrity, and our gaming promoters may violate provisions in their contracts with us designed to ensure such compliance. in addition, if we enter into a new business relationship with a gaming promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if our gaming promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. furthermore, if any of our gaming promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the gaming promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase our macau operations' obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in our macau operations' concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca is linked to the hong kong dollar, and the two are often used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are no longer linked to the u.s. dollar, the exchange rate for these currencies may severely fluctuate. the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies may also change. because many of our macau operations' payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, our macau operations' obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service our debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact our macau operations. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of our macau operations. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact our macau operations. our macau subsidiaries' indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our macau subsidiaries' debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. in the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and then would the holders of our macau subsidiaries' unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets, and only then would we, as a holder of capital stock, be entitled to distribution of any remaining assets. 30 table of contents conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. wynn macau, limited, an indirect majority owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau and wynn palace, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited in october 2009. as of december 31, 2019, wynn resorts owns approximately 72% of wynn macau, limited's ordinary shares of common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. the macau government has established a maximum number of gaming tables that can be operated in macau and has limited the number of new gaming tables at new gaming areas in macau. in connection with the opening of wynn palace, the dicj authorized 100 new table games for operation at wynn palace, with 25 additional table games authorized for operation on january 1, 2017, and a further 25 new table games for operation on january 1, 2018, for a total of 150 new table games in the aggregate. in addition, we have and will continue to transfer table games between wynn palace and wynn macau, subject to the aggregate cap. as of december 31, 2019, we had a total of 323 table games at wynn palace and 322 at wynn macau. the mix of table games in operation at wynn palace and wynn macau changes from time to time as a result of marketing and operating strategies in response to changing market demand and industry competition. failure to shift the mix of our table games in anticipation of market demands and industry trends may negatively impact our operating results. risks related to share ownership and stockholder matters our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. as of december 31, 2019, elaine p. wynn was our fourth largest shareholder and owned 9,539,077 shares, or approximately 9%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, elaine p. wynn may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders' approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. on august 3, 2018, we entered into a cooperation agreement (the "cooperation agreement") with elaine p. wynn regarding the composition of the company's board of directors and certain other matters, including, among other things, the appointment of mr. philip g. satre to the company's board of directors, standstill restrictions, releases, non-disparagement and reimbursement of expenses. the term of the cooperation agreement expires on the later of (i) the date that phil satre no longer serves as chair of the board and (ii) the day after the conclusion of the 2020 annual meeting of the company's stockholders, unless earlier terminated pursuant to the circumstances described in the cooperation agreement. our stock price may be volatile. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general united states, china, and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, increased competition, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, changes in applicable laws or regulations, and changes affecting the travel industry, and other events impacting our business. the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 31 table of contents risks related to our indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2019, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $10.52 billion, which includes a portion of the funds we expect to need for the development and construction of our current projects. we may, however, incur additional indebtedness in connection with the construction of these projects. see item 1 business "our resorts." in addition, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our wynn macau credit facilities, our wrf credit facilities, and our indentures in connection with other future potential development plans. our indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: failure to meet our payment obligations or other obligations could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, foreclosure upon our assets that serve as collateral or bankruptcy and trigger cross defaults under other agreements; servicing our indebtedness requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from our operations and reduces the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital and other cash requirements or pay for other capital expenditures; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed; and rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase. the interest rates of certain of our credit agreements are tied to the london interbank offered rate, or libor. in july 2017, the head of the united kingdom financial conduct authority announced the desire to phase out the use of libor by the end of 2021. in addition, the u.s. federal reserve, in conjunction with the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee comprised of large us financial institutions, is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with the secured overnight financing rate, or sofr, a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by treasury securities. although there have been a few issuances utilizing sofr or the sterling over night index average, an alternative reference rate that is based on transactions, it is unknown whether these alternative reference rates will attain market acceptance as replacements for libor. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate any of our credit agreements extending beyond 2021 that utilize libor as a factor in determining the interest rate to replace libor with the new standard that is established. there is currently no definitive information regarding the future utilization of libor or of any particular replacement rate. as such, the potential effect of any such event could have on our business and financial condition cannot yet be determined. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization and a minimum earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. for more information on financial covenants we are subject to under our debt facilities, see item 8 "financial statements and supplementary data," note 7, "long-term debt." future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; 32 table of contents enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member's interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; undergo a change of control; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events outside of our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. if our properties' operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants, causing a default under our agreements, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders or holders of our debt taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets or cause all outstanding amounts to be due and payable immediately. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings, supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments as of december 31, 2019, of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. actual rates will vary. additionally, the potential effect that the proposed libor phaseout could have on our business and financial condition cannot yet be determined (see item 1a "risk factors," risks related to our indebtedness for further discussion). the one-month libor and hibor rates as of december 31, 2019 of 1.76% and 2.68%, respectively, were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. 55 table of contents the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total (dollars in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ 600.0 $ 5,160.0 $ 6,260.0 average interest rate % % % 4.3 % 4.9 % 5.3 % 5.2 % variable rate $ 323.9 $ 367.5 $ 2,111.4 $ 50.0 $ 787.5 $ 615.0 $ 4,255.3 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.9 % 3.9 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 3.8 % interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2019, approximately 59.5% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2019, an assumed 100 basis point change in the variable rates would cause our annual interest expense to change by $42.6 million. in order to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations on the retail term loan, the company entered into a five year interest rate collar with a notional value of $615.0 million. the interest rate collar establishes a range whereby the company will pay the counterparty if one-month libor falls below the established floor rate of 1.00%, and the counterparty will pay the company if one-month libor exceeds the ceiling rate of 3.75%. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau sa's concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. we expect most of the revenues and expenses for any casino that we operate in macau will be denominated in hong kong dollars or macau patacas; however, a significant portion of our wynn macau, limited and wynn macau sa debt is denominated in u.s. dollars. fluctuations in the exchange rates resulting in weakening of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar in relation to the u.s. dollar could have materially adverse effects on our results, financial condition, and ability to service debt. based on our balances as of december 31, 2019, an assumed 1% change in the u.s. dollar/hong kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of $26.8 million. 56 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. our primary exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as considered necessary. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 64 the following table provides information about our long-term indebtedness as of december 31, 2004: maturity date face amount carrying value estimated fair value (in thousands) 6.625% mortgage notes december 2014 $ 1,300,000 $ 1,300,000 $ 1,293,500 6% convertible subordinated debentures july 2015 250,000 250,000 764,375 term loans, interest at libor plus 2.125%, (approximately 4.575% at december 31, 2004) december 2011 26,564 26,564 26,564 12% second mortgage notes(1) november 2010 10,142 9,611 11,359 note payable airplane; interest at 5.67% september 2011 14,659 14,659 14,659 note payable land parcel; interest at 8.0% february 2009 212 212 212 $ 1,601,577 $ 1,601,046 $ 2,110,669 (1) on december 14, 2004, we deposited in trust with the trustee under the second mortgage notes indenture, government securities having an aggregate face value of approximately $10.1 million (the amounts necessary to pay when due all interest payments and the redemption price on november 1, 2006), and an additional $3.0 million in cash to discharge amounts payable under the second mortgage notes indenture. the estimated fair value reflects the face value of the second mortgage notes reflected at the 112% redemption price at november 1, 2006). the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2004 on our expected long-term indebtedness see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources . however, we cannot predict the libor rates that will be in effect in the future. accordingly, the libor rate at december 31, 2004 equal to 2.45% is used for all calculations in the table below. as of december 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ 0.7 0.8 $ 0.8 $ 0.8 $ 0.9 $ 1,571.0 $ 1,575.0 average interest rate 5.81 % 5.81 % 5.82 % 5.82 % 5.70 % 5.67 % 5.70 % variable rate $ $ $ 22.2 $ 26.3 $ 207.4 $ 651.3 $ 907.2 average interest rate n/a n/a 2.67 % 2.45 % 3.93 % 3.67 % 3.62 % consistent with our obligation under our former credit facilities to obtain interest rate protection for at least $325 million of borrowings thereunder, in may 2003 and june 2003, we entered into two interest rate swap arrangements to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on a total of $825 million of our expected future borrowings under our former credit facilities, which bore interest at libor plus 4% and libor plus 5.5%, on the former revolving credit facility and the former term loan facility, respectively, and were to mature in october 2008 and october 2009, respectively. on december 14, 2004, concurrent with the refinancing of wynn las vegas debt structure, we terminated the two interest rate swaps. as a result of the termination, we received a cash of approximately $9.6 million in settlement of the related asset. the balance of $9.6 million in accumulated other comprehensive income related to those interest rate swaps will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the original contract life of the two interest rate swaps. also concurrent with the refinancing, we entered into two new interest rate swap arrangements to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on a total of $400.0 million of our expected future borrowings under our new term 65 loan facility, which bears interest at libor plus 2.125%. under each of these two new interest rate swap arrangements, we will receive payments at a variable rate of libor and pay a fixed rate of 3.793% on $200 million notional amount set forth in the swap instruments from february and march 2005, respectively through december 2008. these effective dates of the two swaps were designed to correspond with the amounts and timing of our expected borrowings under the new term loan facility. the interest rate swaps are expected to be effective as hedging instruments as long as sufficient libor-based borrowings are outstanding under the new term loan facility, and effectively fixes the interest rate on borrowings under the new term loan facility at approximately 5.918%. any ineffectiveness will increase our recorded interest expense in our consolidated financial statements. as of december 31, 2003, we recorded in other assets the fair value of the net effect of the two former interest rate swaps of approximately $8.8 million. because there had been no ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship, the corresponding change in fair value of equal amount was reported in other comprehensive income for the year ended december 31, 2003. as of december 31, 2004, we recorded in other assets the fair value of the net effect of the two new interest rate swaps of approximately $583,000. because there has been no ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship, the corresponding change in fair value of equal amount is reported in other comprehensive income for the year ended december 31, 2004. the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2004 and using estimated future libor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve: expected averages as of december 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ 333.3 $ 400.0 $ 400.0 $ 400.0 $ $ n/a average pay rate 3.79 % 3.79 % 3.79 % 3.79 % n/a average receive rate 2.78 % 3.47 % 4.02 % 4.53 % n/a we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. for the year ended december 31, 2004, we incurred approximately $122.0 million in interest. certain amounts of our outstanding indebtedness for the year was based upon a variable, libor rate plus a premium. a 1% increase in the libor would have increased our interest cost for 2004 by approximately $2.5 million. foreign currency risks the currency used in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. certain asian countries have publicly asserted their desire to eliminate the linkage of the hong kong dollar and the chinese renminbi to the u.s. dollar. as a result, we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar, the chinese renminbi and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current peg rate for these currencies will remain at the same level. any change in such peg rate could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make payments on certain of our debt instruments. 66 because wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations under the concession agreement are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenue for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. wynn macau intends to spend any macau patacas received on local casino operating expenses. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau ability to service its debt, its results of operations and its financial condition. we have not yet determined whether we will engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risk.risk factors the following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. with the completion of wynn las vegas, as of december 31, 2005, we have total outstanding debt of approximately $2.1 billion. if the encore budget, plans and specs are approved in accordance with our loan documents, we will be able to incur up to an additional $590.0 million under the credit facilities to fund the construction of encore. in addition our credit agreement will permit us to incur additional indebtedness in connection with potential expansion plans under certain circumstances in the future. lastly, our credit facilities for the development and construction of wynn macau will, subject to certain circumstances, allow us to incur up to $672.0 million (as of december 31, 2005) of additional debt to complete wynn macau. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: if we do not complete construction of each phase of wynn macau by the scheduled completion dates, or if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include rights to: repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral, initiate judicial foreclosure against us, petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets, and if we are insolvent, initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, in each case, subject to procedural restraints and limitations applicable to secured creditors generally and also those imposed by applicable gaming laws, rules and regulations; we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the wynn las vegas operations to service and amortize our wynn las vegas indebtedness and to pay development costs of encore, which will reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; we may have a limited ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund development and construction costs of encore, satisfy working capital requirements, or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; 19 under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, we will be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer and sell assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. the debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include minimum interest coverage and total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. future indebtedness or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the existing debt facilities. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to comply with these covenants. our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. 20 our subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. in the event of a default by any of our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. risks relating to our business a downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. our business operations are affected by international, national and local economic conditions. a recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our property, could result in fewer customers visiting, or spending less at, our properties, which would adversely affect our revenues. we have a limited operating history. our operations are subject to the significant business, economic, regulatory and competitive uncertainties and contingencies frequently encountered by new businesses in competitive environments, many of which are beyond our control. because we have a limited operating history, it may be more difficult for us to prepare for and respond to these types of risks compared to a company with an established business. if we are not able to manage these risks successfully, it could negatively impact our operations. we are entirely dependent on one property for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we do not expect to have material assets or operations other than wynn las vegas until the opening of wynn macau in the third quarter of 2006. until that time, we are entirely dependent upon wynn las vegas for all of our cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; an increase in the cost of utilities for wynn las vegas as a result of, among other things, power shortages in california or other western states with which nevada shares a single regional power grid or a shortage of natural resources such as water; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas; and a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at wynn las vegas. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments with respect to our debt. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. competition for wynn las vegas. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments are currently underway. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of 21 amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size. wynn las vegas also competes with a large number of other hotels located in and near las vegas, as well as other resort destinations. some of our competitors have established gaming operations, are subsidiaries or divisions of large public companies, and may have greater financial and other resources than we do. wynn las vegas also competes, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in nevada and in atlantic city, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries, internet gaming and other forms of gaming. the continued proliferation of native american gaming in california could have a negative impact on our operations. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas, such as new york, philadelphia, los angeles, san francisco and boston, from which we attract customers, could have a substantial negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers, including high-rollers, away from wynn las vegas. competition for wynn macau. the macau government has granted concessions to operate casinos to three companies. two sub-concessions have also been granted and additional subconcessions are expected. the three concessionaires and two sub-concessionaires currently operate 17 casinos in macau. on march 4, 2006, the company entered into an agreement with pbl pursuant to which the company agreed to sell to pbl a subconcession to operate casino games in macau. the transaction is subject to the approval of the macau government. pbl, in partnership with melco, is currently constructing the crown macau on taipa and has announced the city of dreams project in cotai. sjm, controlled by stanley ho, who through another entity controlled the monopoly concession to conduct gaming operations in macau for more than 40 years, is one of the concessionaires and operates 15 of the 17 casinos that are currently operating in macau. sjm is also constructing the grand lisboa, a resort opposite the rear entrance of the hotel lisboa, one of the main competitors in macau gaming. las vegas sands opened the sands macao in may 2004 and is currently building the venetian macao resort, an all-suites hotel, casino and convention center complex, with a venetian-style theme similar to that of their las vegas property. in addition, mgm mirage is building the mgm grand macau, a resort on the macau peninsula adjacent to wynn macau, jointly owned and operated by mgm mirage and pansy ho chiu-king (stanley ho daughter). wynn macau will face additional competition from ongoing development in macau and from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia and casinos to be developed in singapore, south korea and the philippines, as well as pachinko and pachislot parlors in japan. wynn macau will also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, such as australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in thailand or penghu, taiwan are successful or if the reported large-scale new casino entertainment complex proposed in manila, philippines is developed, wynn macau will face additional regional competition. our business relies on high-end, international customers to whom we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table game revenue at wynn las vegas is, and at wynn macau will be, attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of 22 gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. in addition, the collectibility of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce gaming debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau was changed to permit casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent that gaming customers of wynn macau are expected to be visitors from other jurisdictions, wynn macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and wynn macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. wynn macau inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on its operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for credit losses. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we would have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. if the laws are not changed, our business in macau may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers. although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax laws in macau, there can be no assurance that the laws will be changed. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. general. the operation of wynn las vegas and wynn macau is contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. we received all approvals and opened wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, however, we are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. we will open wynn macau in the third quarter of 2006, however, failure to obtain or maintain the necessary approvals could prevent or delay the completion or opening of all or part of the facilities. wynn las vegas. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. 23 nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. the suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. wynn macau. wynn macau operations will be subject to unique risks, including risks related to macau developing regulatory framework. wynn macau may need to develop operating procedures which are different from those used in united states casinos. failure to adapt to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau, s.a. concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we would be subject to the risk that macau gaming regulatory framework will not develop in a way that would permit us as a united states gaming operator, to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. our subconcession sale is also subject to the approval of the macau government. there are significant risks associated with major construction projects that may prevent completion of encore and/or wynn macau on schedule and within budget. major construction projects of the scope and scale of encore and wynn macau entail significant risks, including: shortages of materials or skilled labor; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of encore and/or wynn macau. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of a subcontractor work and payment for all of that subcontractor labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. we have not yet entered into a final agreement with a general contractor or any trade contractors with respect to the construction of encore. we may not agree with general or trade contractors on financial and other terms that will meet our forecasted $1.74 billion cost budget and schedule. encore and/or wynn macau may not commence operations on schedule or that construction costs for these projects will not exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete any of these projects on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. 24 simultaneous construction of our wynn macau and encore projects may stretch management time and resources and may impact wynn las vegas. both the construction of wynn macau and the development and preconstruction efforts for encore continue. since there is significant overlap of the development and construction of these projects, members of our senior management are simultaneously involved in planning and developing both of these projects. constructing wynn macau simultaneously with the planned development and construction of encore may divert management resources from the construction and/or opening of any one project. management inability to devote sufficient time and attention to any one project may delay the construction or opening of any, or all of the projects. any delay caused by such circumstances could have a negative effect on our business and operations. in addition, although we intend to construct encore with minimal impact on wynn las vegas, we cannot assure you that the construction will not disrupt the operations of wynn las vegas or that it will be implemented as planned. therefore, the construction of encore may adversely impact the business, operations and revenues of wynn las vegas. terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. the strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities wynn las vegas and wynn macau offer. changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the united states and elsewhere, military conflicts in iraq and in the middle east, and past outbreaks of infectious disease have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. we cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. an extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. in particular, because our business will rely heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations. in addition to terrorist activities, military conflicts, the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the avian flu or the impact of a natural disaster such as a tsunami or typhoon, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. we currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of terrorist acts with respect to wynn las vegas and wynn macau for up to $500.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, of losses that could result from these acts. however, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations. in addition, insurance premiums have increased on available coverage, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. we may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. while we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. in the event that insurance premiums continue to increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverages we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection. 25 if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. we have filed applications with the united states patent and trademark office ( pto ), to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn las vegas and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of these marks is the use of the surname, wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) cannot be registered unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. even if we are able to obtain registration of the wynn-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. if a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. however, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such allegations should be true, may have a material impact on our business. the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. in 2004, we extended the term of mr. wynn employment agreement until october 2017. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with us. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. in addition, if mr. wynn is no longer either employed by us as chief executive officer or serving as chairman of the board, other than as a result of death or disability or other limited circumstances, it would constitute a change of control that would require wynn las vegas to offer to repay the first mortgage notes and would constitute an event of default under its credit facilities and wynn macau, s.a. credit facilities. our two largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction. mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc. each own slightly less than 25% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, virtually are able to control all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. in addition, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., together with baron asset fund, have entered into a stockholders agreement. under the stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors, a majority of which will be designated by 26 mr. wynn, of which at least two will be independent directors, and the remaining members of which will be designated by aruze usa, inc. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. in connection with the demolition of the existing buildings situated on the 20-acre parcel where we intend to construct encore, we discovered a small amount of asbestos which we incurred costs to dispose of appropriately. we may be required to incur costs to remediate other potential environmental hazards or to mitigate environmental risks in the future. risks associated with wynn macau a number of new casino resort developments underway or planned for the near future will require us to compete for limited labor resources in macau. we will need to recruit a substantial number of new employees before wynn macau opens and retain them in order to have a successful operation. wynn macau will compete with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in macau and expected in the near future for the limited qualified employees. we may have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff wynn macau. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for wynn macau. the development costs of wynn macau are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. we expect the total development costs of wynn macau to be approximately $1.2 billion, including the budgeted design and construction costs, cost of the land payments (through opening), capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses and all financing fees. the required cash interest payments and commitment fees on the bank facility which will become due through the estimated commencement date of operations of wynn macau have been included in our estimate of the total development costs. while we believe that the overall budget for the development costs of wynn macau is reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. although we have certain owners contingencies, a $72.0 million contingent debt facility (which, upon receipt of lender consent will be applied to the casino expansion in phase two and certain suite enhancements) and $30.0 million of contingent equity set aside to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs. 27 not all of the construction costs of wynn macau are covered by a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, and we will be responsible for any cost overruns of these excluded items. we have entered into a guaranteed maximum price construction contract for the design and construction of wynn macau with leighton contractors (asia) limited, china state construction engineering (hong kong) limited and china construction engineering (macau) company limited, acting together as general contractor ( leighton/china state ). the contract covers approximately $457.2 million of the budgeted $685.0 million design and construction costs for wynn macau. we are responsible for cost overruns with respect to any budgeted components that are not part of the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. the amended guaranteed maximum price under the leighton/china state construction contract may increase, and we would be responsible for the amount of any increase. although we have a $457.2 million guaranteed maximum price construction contract with leighton/china state for the construction of wynn macau, it provides that the guaranteed maximum price will be appropriately increased, and the deadline for the contractor obligation to complete construction will be appropriately adjusted, on account of scope changes or delays by us and certain other factors, some of which are beyond our control. if any of these events occurs and the guaranteed maximum price is increased, we may not be able to complete wynn macau within the amount budgeted. the financial resources of our contractor may be insufficient to fund cost overruns or liquidated damages for which it is responsible under the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. under the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations of the guaranteed maximum price construction contract, leighton/china state is responsible for all construction costs covered by the construction contract that exceed the approximately $457.2 million guaranteed maximum price contained in the contract. the parent companies of the contractor have provided a continuing guaranty by which they guarantee the contractor full performance under the construction contract until final payment under that contract. we cannot assure you that the contractor or its parent companies will have sufficient financial resources to fund any cost overruns or liquidated damages for which they are responsible under the guaranteed maximum price contract. furthermore, neither is contractually obligated to maintain the financial resources to cover cost overruns. if they do not have the resources to meet their obligations and we are unable to obtain funds from them in a timely manner, we may need to pay these excess costs in order to complete construction of wynn macau. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. the success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau. in december 1999, after approximately 450 years of portuguese control, portugal returned macau to chinese administration. the people republic of china established macau as a special administrative region. as a result of this change in control, macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. we cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of wynn macau. wynn macau operations will be subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market such as china. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm wynn macau business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. 28 macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which may be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of wynn macau by disrupting our ability to timely construct the project and by preventing guests from traveling to macau. our investment in macau may be subject to potential taxation. our investment in macau is owned through a number of wholly owned and partially owned domestic and foreign entities. although we believe that transfers to these entities of the assets and stock of the wynn macau companies were accomplished on a tax-free basis, there is a risk that the internal revenue service could assert that any appreciation in the transferred assets or stock was taxable at the time of such transfers. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act could have a negative impact on wynn macau. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, which generally prohibits u.s. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. the macau government can terminate our subconcession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; 29 is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. we will stop generating any revenues from our macau gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, on that date, all of our casino operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in december 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. we also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the macau government has the ability to grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and two sub-concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau, and the macau government is precluded from granting any additional gaming concessions until 2009. however, we cannot assure you that the laws will not be changed to permit the macau government to grant additional gaming concessions before 2009. mgm mirage joint venture has obtained a subconcession under sjm existing concession. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. certain nevada gaming laws would apply to wynn macau planned gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. as we develop wynn macau, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau proposed to be conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; 30 engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiaries gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. certain asian countries have publicly asserted their desire to eliminate the linkage of the hong kong dollar to the u.s. dollar. as a result, we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar, and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau ability to service its debt, its results of operations and its financial condition. the sale of our subconcession is subject to the approval of the macau government. risks associated with the development of encore there are conditions precedent to the funding of the remaining components of the financing for encore. as of december 31, 2005, we had approximately $175.4 million in remaining net proceeds from the offering of our first mortgage notes held in a notes proceeds account, and availability under our credit facilities, 31 which we intend to use to fund construction of encore. we expect that the remaining proceeds from the first mortgage notes, together with availability under the credit facilities and cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to fund encore project costs of up to $1.52 billion without incurring additional debt or receiving additional capital contributions from wynn resorts. we have entered into a disbursement agreement with the agent under the credit facilities and the trustee under the indenture for the first mortgage notes, which sets forth the sequence of funding and establishes conditions for the disbursement of funds for the wynn las vegas and encore projects. our ability to borrow, from time to time, under the credit facilities and receive advances from the notes proceeds account is subject to various conditions precedent set forth in the disbursement agreement. we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the conditions to funding at the time drawdowns are required to make payments of our construction costs. satisfaction of various conditions is subject to the discretion of the disbursement agent and the lenders under the credit facilities and/or their consultants and agent and may therefore be beyond our control. failure to satisfy the conditions to the drawdowns under the credit facilities could impact our ability to develop and construct encore. we may not have access to alternative sources of funds necessary to develop and construct encore on satisfactory terms or at all. availability under our credit facilities will be reduced by $550.0 million if the encore budget, plans and specs are not approved by march 31, 2006. our credit facilities provide that a majority of the arrangers or a majority of the lenders under the credit facilities must approve the encore budget, plans and specs on or before march 31, 2006. if the encore budget, plans and specs are not approved by such date, availability under the new credit facilities will be reduced by $550.0 million. we will submit required documentation to our lenders on march 15, 2006, and will seek necessary consents and approvals from our lenders. we cannot assure you that the encore budget, plans and specs will be satisfactory to the arrangers or lenders under our credit facilities. such decisions are subject to lender discretion and are beyond our control. if we do not have this availability under the credit facilities or are unable to obtain the required consents, we may not have access to alternative sources of funds necessary to develop and construct encore on satisfactory terms or at all. we intend to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of encore and our substantial debt service and other obligations with cash flows generated at wynn las vegas, which may not be sufficient to fund such development costs and debt service obligations. our ability to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of encore, and to make interest payments under the credit facilities, the notes and any other indebtedness, is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations at wynn las vegas. we cannot assure you that wynn las vegas will continue to be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such development costs and make the interest payments under the new credit facilities, the first mortgage notes and any other indebtedness. our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors, including: our operating performance; the demand for services that we provide; general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting nevada or the hotel/casino industry in particular; our ability to hire and retain employees at a reasonable cost; competition; and legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business. 32 some of these factors are beyond our control. any inability to generate sufficient cash flows to fund the development of encore or meet our debt service obligations would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, the financing documents for our wynn macau project contain restrictions on the distribution to wynn resorts of any cash flow generated by the wynn macau casino. thus, any cash flow generated by wynn macau may not be available to fund development costs of encore or service our debt. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 47 wynn macau financing for wynn macau design, development, construction and pre-opening expenses is provided by a combination of cash on hand in the form of base equity loans totaling $230 million, subordinated loan financing (provided from funds borrowed under the wynn las vegas, llc revolving credit facility) totaling $80 million, and a senior secured credit facility. on september 14, 2005, we amended the wynn macau, s.a. senior secured credit facility to expand its availability from $397 million to $764 million, to currently include $729 million of senior term loan facilities, a hk$117 million revolving credit facility (approximately us$15 million), and an additional term loan facility of hk$156 million (approximately us$20 million). as of december 31, 2005, we have borrowed approximately $78.9 million under the wynn macau, s.a. senior secured credit facility. the term loan facilities mature in september 2011, and the revolving credit facility matures in september 2007. the principal amount of the term loans is required to be repaid in quarterly installments, commencing on march 14, 2008. the term loans will bear interest at libor or the hong kong interbank offered rate ( hibor ) plus a margin of 3.0% until the opening of wynn macau (expected in the third quarter of 2006), at which time the interest rate will reduce to libor or hibor plus a margin of 2.75%. the senior bank facility also provides for further reductions in the margin on the term loans if wynn macau, s.a. satisfies certain prescribed leverage ratio tests. loans under the revolving credit facility will bear interest at hibor plus 2.5%. collateral for the senior bank facility consists of substantially all of the assets of wynn macau, s.a. certain affiliates that own interests in wynn macau, s.a., either directly or indirectly through other subsidiaries, have executed guarantees of the loans and pledged their interests in wynn macau, s.a. as additional security for repayment of the loans. we began to draw under the senior secured facilities in october 2005, after expenditure of the base equity and subordinated funding. through december 31, 2005, we incurred approximately $427.2 million of the total $1.2 billion of budgeted project costs. total budgeted project costs include construction and design costs (including construction contingencies) of approximately $688.0 million, land acquisition costs of approximately $49.0 million, the additional casino expansion of approximately $70.0 million and capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, financing fees and other costs totaling in the aggregate approximately $368.6 million. these costs have been, and will continue to be, paid from the previously funded $230.0 million base equity and loans from wynn resorts and $80.0 million borrowed under wynn las vegas, llc revolving credit agreement and loaned as subordinated debt, as well as wynn macau, s.a. $764.0 million senior secured credit facility and cash flows from operations once wynn macau opens. as of december 31, 2005, project costs still to be incurred totaled approximately $748.4 million. in addition to the above financing sources, we have $30.0 million (plus $1.8 million of accumulated interest earnings) of long-term restricted cash reserved as contingent equity and a $72.0 million contingent debt facility available for wynn macau. we entered into interest rate swap agreements in october 2005 to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau, s.a. credit facilities. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. other in the second quarter of 2005, we borrowed an aggregate amount of $44.75 million secured by a corporate aircraft. the loans mature on may 24, 2010. principal and interest is payable quarterly, and interest is calculated at libor plus a margin of 2.375%. in addition to scheduled amortization payments, we are required to prepay the loans if certain events of loss with respect to the aircraft occur. beginning december 31, 2006, we may prepay all or any portion of the loans, subject to a minimum prepayment of $10.0 million. as of december 31, 2005, approximately $43.5 million was outstanding under this borrowing. expected commercial commitments the following table summarizes certain information regarding our expected long-term indebtedness and material commercial commitments based upon our best estimate at december 31, 2005 of our expected long-term 48 indebtedness and commercial commitments (amounts in millions): payments due by period long-term indebtedness total less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 4 to 5 years after 5 years first mortgage notes $ 1,300.0 $ $ $ $ 1,300.0 convertible subordinated debentures[1] 250.0 250.0 wynn las vegas credit facilities[2] 410.0 10.0 400.0 macau senior credit facilities[3] 79.0 17.3 44.9 16.8 second mortgage notes[4] 10.1 10.1 other long-term obligations[5] 57.7 5.8 12.6 29.3 10.0 total long-term indebtedness $ 2,106.8 $ 15.9 $ 29.9 $ 84.2 $ 1,976.8 amount of commitment expiration per period other commercial commitments total amounts committed less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 4 to 5 years after 5 years construction contracts and commitments $ 348.1 $ 208.4 $ 139.7 $ $ employment agreements 103.6 31.9 41.9 10.9 18.9 leasehold interest in land[6] 30.0 9.6 14.2 6.2 operating leases 19.1 3.8 4.1 3.7 7.5 estimated interest payments on long-term debt[7] 1,170.2 148.5 290.6 285.0 446.0 total commercial commitments $ 1,671.0 $ 402.2 $ 490.5 $ 305.8 $ 472.4 [1] represents the full obligation under the convertible debentures assuming no conversion to common stock. the convertible debentures are convertible, at the holders option, into a maximum of 10,869,550 shares of our common stock (subject to adjustment as provided in the indenture governing the convertible debentures), which is equivalent to a conversion price of $23.00 per share. subsequent to december 31, 2005 through the filing of this report, approximately $3.8 million of the convertible debentures were converted into common stock. [2] as of december 31, 2005, we had $400.0 million of term loans outstanding and $10.0 million outstanding under the revolver, which mature on december 14, 2011 and december 14, 2009, respectively. the $590.0 million remaining available under the revolver may be used for working capital for wynn las vegas or, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, for the construction and development of encore. [3] as of december 31, 2005, we had borrowed approximately $79.0 million under wynn macau, s.a. senior credit facilities. we anticipate that we will borrow the remaining available amounts to construct and open wynn macau and its expansion by the third quarter of 2007. principal amortization begins in 2007 and the facility matures on september 14, 2011. [4] on december 14, 2004, we deposited in trust with the trustee under the second mortgage notes indenture, government securities having an aggregate face value of approximately $10.1 million (the amounts necessary to pay when due all interest payments and the redemption price on november 1, 2006), and an additional $3.0 million in cash to discharge amounts payable under the second mortgage notes indenture. [5] represents the $43.5 million outstanding of the $44.75 million original term loan borrowing secured by a corporate aircraft bearing interest at libor plus 2.375%; $13.3 million remaining outstanding on a 5.67% note payable pursuant to a loan to finance our other corporate aircraft; and the remaining amount of an 8% annuity issued by itt sheraton in connection with the acquisition of a parcel of land in 1994. the $43.5 million aircraft loan requires quarterly amortizing principal and interest payments and matures on may 24, 2010; the $13.3 million aircraft loan notes requires monthly principal and interest payments with balloon payments of $9.6 million in 2011; and the annuity requires payments of $5,000 per month until february 2009. 49 [6] in june 2004, we entered into a land concession contract with the government of macau for a 25-year lease of approximately 16 acres of land. at december 31, 2005, we had 8 semi-annual installment payments remaining at 5% interest, as specified in the land concession contract. [7] amounts for all periods represent our estimated future interest payments on our debt facilities based upon currently existing commitments and anticipated libor rates based upon expected yield curves (including the effect of our interest rate swaps) as well as expected timing of repayments. other liquidity matters wynn resorts is a holding company and, as a result, its ability to pay dividends is dependent on its subsidiaries ability to provide funds to it. restrictions imposed by our subsidiaries debt instruments significantly restrict certain key subsidiaries holding a majority of our assets, including wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a., from making dividends or distributions to us. specifically, wynn las vegas, llc and certain of its subsidiaries are restricted under the indenture governing the first mortgage notes from making certain restricted payments as defined in the indenture. these restricted payments include the payment of dividends or distributions to any direct or indirect holders of equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc. these restricted payments may not be made unless certain financial and non-financial criteria have been satisfied. the other credit facilities of wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a. contain similar restrictions; provided that the wynn macau, s.a. loan agreements permit distribution of the net proceeds of subconcession sales. if completion of encore or wynn macau projects is delayed, then our debt service obligations accruing prior to the actual opening will increase correspondingly. wynn las vegas will fund its operations and capital requirements from operating cash flow and remaining availability under wynn las vegas, llc credit facilities. we cannot assure you, however, that wynn las vegas will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings available to us under the wynn las vegas credit facilities will be sufficient to enable us to service and repay wynn las vegas, llc indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs. similarly, we expect that wynn macau, upon opening, will fund wynn macau, s.a. debt service obligations with operating cash flow and remaining availability under its senior secured bank facility. however, we cannot assure you that operating cash flows and available borrowings will be sufficient to do so. we may refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of the indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. new business developments or other unforeseen events may occur, resulting in the need to raise additional funds. we continue to explore opportunities to develop additional gaming or related businesses in las vegas, as well as other domestic or international markets. there can be no assurances regarding the business prospects with respect to any other opportunity. any other development would require us to obtain additional financing. we may decide to conduct any such development through wynn resorts or through subsidiaries separate from the las vegas or macau-related entities. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock, including its common stock, that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability and orders the redemption, or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by our board of directors. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note or both, as required by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as we elect. any promissory note that we issue to an unsuitable person or its affiliate in exchange for its shares could increase our debt to equity ratio and will increase our leverage ratio. critical accounting policies and estimates management discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements. our consolidated financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. certain of our accounting policies require that management apply significant judgment in defining the appropriate assumptions 50 integral to financial estimates. on an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates, including those relating to the estimated lives of depreciable assets, asset impairment, allowances for doubtful accounts, accruals for customer loyalty rewards, self insurance, contingencies, litigation and other items. judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, industry trends and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. however, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, and therefore actual results could differ from our estimates. development, construction and property and equipment estimates during the construction and development of a resort, pre-opening or start-up costs are expensed when incurred. in connection with the construction and development of wynn las vegas, significant start-up costs were incurred and charged to pre-opening expenses through the second quarter of 2005, as anticipated. once wynn las vegas opened to the public, expenses associated with the opening of the resort were no longer charged as pre-opening expenses. however, start-up costs relating to the encore and wynn macau projects will continue to be charged to pre-opening expenses. during the construction and development stage, direct costs such as those incurred for the design and construction of wynn las vegas and wynn macau, including applicable portions of interest, are capitalized. accordingly, the recorded amounts of property and equipment increase significantly during construction periods. depreciation expense related to capitalized construction costs is recognized when the related assets are put in service. accordingly, upon opening of wynn las vegas, we began recognizing depreciation expense on the resort fixed assets. depreciation expense is recognized in our financial statements based on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the corresponding assets as follows: buildings and improvements 10 to 45 years land improvements 10 to 45 years airplanes 7 to 20 years furniture, fixtures and equipment 5 to 20 years the remaining estimated useful lives of assets are periodically reviewed. a charge resulting from a change in the estimated period of benefit is accounted for in the period of change as a change in accounting estimate under accounting principles board ( apb ) no. 20, accounting changes. our leasehold interest in the land leased in macau under the land concession contract entered into in june 2004 is being amortized over 25 years, to reflect the initial term of the concession contract, which currently terminates in june 2029. depreciation on the majority of the assets comprising wynn macau, however, will commence in the third quarter of 2006, when wynn macau opens. the maximum useful life of assets at wynn macau will be the remaining life of the gaming concession, which currently expires in june 2022. consequently, depreciation related to wynn macau will generally be charged on an accelerated basis when compared to wynn las vegas. costs of building repairs and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. the cost and accumulated depreciation of property and equipment retired or otherwise disposed of are eliminated from the respective accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in operating income or loss. we also evaluate our property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. for assets to be disposed of, we recognize the asset at the lower of carrying value or fair market value less costs of disposal, as estimated based on comparable asset sales, solicited offers, or a discounted cash flow model. for assets to be held and used, we review for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. we then compare the estimated future cash flows of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying value of the asset. if the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. if the 51 undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is recorded based on the fair value of the asset, typically measured using a discounted cash flow model. if an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. all recognized impairment losses, whether for assets to be disposed of or assets to be held and used, are recorded as operating expenses. income taxes we are subject to income taxes in the united states and macau. we account for income taxes according to statement of financial accounting standards no. 109, accounting for income taxes ( sfas 109 ). sfas 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets, net of applicable reserves, related to net operating loss carry-forwards and certain temporary differences. the standard requires recognition of a future tax benefit to the extent that realization of such benefit is more likely than not. otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied. during our development stage, we accumulated significant net operating losses which, among other things, generated significant deferred tax assets. at december 31, 2005, we had $199.9 million of deferred tax assets and $99.7 million of deferred tax liabilities. at this time, because of our limited operating history, we have fully reserved these net deferred tax assets. if these net deferred tax assets become more likely than not realizable as defined by sfas no. 109, we intend to appropriately reduce the deferred tax asset reserves. allowance for estimated doubtful accounts receivable we evaluate our reserve for bad debts based on a specific review of customer accounts as well as management prior experience with collection trends in the casino industry and current economic and business conditions. a substantial portion of our outstanding receivables relates to casino credit play. credit play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at wynn las vegas. we maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to pay their marker balances timely. these collection efforts may include the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, personal contacts, the use of outside collection agencies, and litigation. markers are generally legally enforceable instruments in the united states. markers are not legally enforceable instruments in some foreign countries, but the united states assets of foreign customers may be used to satisfy judgments entered in the united states. at december 31, 2005, approximately 70% of our casino accounts receivable were owed by customers from foreign countries. the collectibility of markers given by foreign customers is affected by a number of factors including changes in currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the customers home countries. as our customer payment experience evolves, we will continue to refine our estimated reserve for bad debts. accordingly, the associated provision for doubtful accounts charge may fluctuate. because individual customer account balances can be significant, the reserve and the provision can change significantly between periods, as information about a certain customer becomes known or as changes in a region economy or legal system occur. derivative financial instruments we seek to manage our market risk, including interest rate risk associated with variable rate borrowings, through balancing fixed-rate and variable-rate borrowings and the use of derivative financial instruments. the company accounts for derivative financial instruments in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. derivative financial instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities, with changes in fair value affecting net income (loss) or comprehensive income (loss) as applicable. significant judgmental accruals we estimate liabilities for certain self-insurance, customer loyalty program reward redemptions, contingencies, claims and litigation and other items, as appropriate. management determines the adequacy of 52 these estimates by reviewing the expected trends and from industry experience and adjusts the assumptions utilized as necessary. recently issued accounting standards in december 2004, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 123(r), share based payment. this statement is a revision of sfas no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation and supercedes apb opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees, and related interpretations. sfas no. 123(r) establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods and services or incurs a liability in exchange for goods and services that are based on the fair value of the entity equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. it requires an entity to measure the costs of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award and recognize that cost over the service period. we adopted this statement, according to sec rule, as amended, on january 1, 2006, utilizing the modified prospective method and the black-scholes valuation model. in march 2005, the sec issued staff accounting bulleting ( sab ) no. 107, share-based payment to provide interpretive guidance on sfas no. 123(r) valuation methods, assumptions used in valuation models, and the interaction of sfas no. 123(r) with existing sec guidance. sab no. 107 also requires the classification of stock compensation expense in the same financial statement line items as cash compensation, and will therefore impact our departmental expenses (and related operating margins), pre-opening costs and construction in progress for our development projects, and our general and administrative expenses (including corporate expenses). we estimate that the expensing of stock options will reduce our net income for 2006 by approximately $12.8 million (or $0.13 per share) for the unvested options outstanding as of december 31, 2005. see note 2, significant accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements, for a description of other recently issued accounting pronouncements, which are relevant to the company but which we believe will not have a material impact on the company. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks our primary exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as considered necessary. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 53 the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2005 on our expected long-term indebtedness. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. accordingly, the libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2005 of 4.37875% and 4.11045%, respectively are used for all calculations in the table below. as of december 31, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ 10.9 0.8 $ 0.8 $ 0.8 $ 0.9 $ 1,560.0 $ 1,574.2 average interest rate 11.53 % 5.82 % 5.73 % 5.67 % 5.67 % 6.51 % 6.66 % variable rate $ 5.0 $ 5.3 $ 22.9 $ 37.0 $ 45.6 $ 416.8 $ 532.6 average interest rate 7.31 % 7.37 % 7.68 % 7.62 % 7.82 % 7.20 % 7.31 % interest rate swap information in 2003, 2004 and 2005, the company entered into interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of its floating-rate debt facilities, and accounts for these swaps under statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities ( sfas no. 133 ), and its related interpretations. wynn las vegas swaps during 2003, we entered into two interest rate swap arrangements to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on a total of $825.0 million of borrowings under our previous wynn las vegas, llc credit facilities. on december 14, 2004, concurrent with the refinancing of wynn las vegas, llc debt structure, we terminated these two interest rate swaps. as a result of the termination, we received a cash payment of approximately $9.6 million in settlement of the related asset. concurrent with the refinancing, we entered into two new interest rate swap arrangements to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on a total of $400.0 million of borrowings under the current wynn las vegas, llc term loan facility, which bears interest at libor plus 2.125%. under each of these two interest rate swap arrangements, we receive payments at a variable rate of libor and pay a fixed rate of 3.793% on $200 million notional amount set forth in the swap instruments from february and march 2005, respectively through december 2008. although these interest rate swaps are highly effective economically in fixing the interest rate on these borrowings under the new term loan facility at approximately 5.9%, changes in fair value of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period are, and will continue to be, recorded as a component of interest and other income as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. wynn macau on october 14, 2005, we entered into two interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on future borrowings under wynn macau s.a. $749 million senior term loan facility. under the first swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 4.84% on borrowings estimated to be incurred under the senior term loan facility up to a maximum of approximately $198.2 million, in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. under the second swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 4.77% on borrowings estimated to be incurred under the senior term loan facility up to a maximum of approximately hk$1.1 billion (approximately us$140.3 million), in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. the term of both swap agreements is from november 28, 2005 through november 28, 2008. these interest rate swaps are expected to be highly effective in fixing the interest rate on 50% of the us dollar and 50% of the hong kong dollar borrowings under the senior bank facility at approximately 7.84% and 54 7.77%, respectively. however, changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as a component of interest and other income as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. summary of historical fair values the following table presents the historical asset or (liability) fair values (reflected in deposits and other assets or in other long-term liabilities as appropriate) at december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and as of the december 14, 2004 termination date of the previous wynn las vegas interest rate swaps (amounts in thousands): wynn las vegas previous interest rate swaps wynn las vegas current interest rate swaps wynn macau interest rate swaps total interest rate swap asset/ (liability) asset / (liability) fair value: at december 31, 2005 $ $ 10,523 $ (1,788 ) $ 8,735 at december 31, 2004 $ $ 583 $ $ 583 at december 14, 2004 settlement $ 9,625 $ $ $ 9,625 at december 31, 2003 $ 8,793 $ $ $ 8,793 the fair value approximates the amount the company would receive if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps as of december 31, 2005 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve: expected averages as of december 31, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ 651.7 $ 739.3 $ 739.3 $ $ $ n/a average pay rate 4.17 % 4.26 % 4.24 % n/a average receive rate 4.88 % 4.93 % 4.87 % n/a we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity for the year ended december 31, 2005, we incurred approximately $149.5 million in interest. certain amounts of our outstanding indebtedness for the year was based upon a variable, libor rate plus a premium. a 1% increase in the libor would have increased our interest cost for 2005 by approximately $700,000. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. 55 however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. in july 2005, officials from the people bank of china announced the adoption of a new foreign exchange policy that will move away from a u.s. dollar peg of 8.28 chinese renminbi to one u.s. dollar. the renminbi will instead trade based on a basket of currencies. the currency components of the basket have not been announced. the exchange rate at september 30, 2005, was 8.11 chinese renminbi to one u.s. dollar. management believes that the current revaluation of the renminibi will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. certain asian countries have publicly asserted their desire to eliminate the linkage of the hong kong dollar to the u.s. dollar. as a result, we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar, and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau ability to service its debt, its results of operations and its financial condition. we have not yet determined whether we will engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risk.risk factors the following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2006, we have total outstanding debt of approximately $2.4 billion. in addition our wynn las vegas credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness in connection with potential expansion plans under certain circumstances in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include rights to: repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral, initiate judicial foreclosure against us, petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets, and if we are insolvent, initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, in each case, subject to procedural restraints and limitations applicable to secured creditors generally and also those imposed by applicable gaming laws, rules and regulations; we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the wynn las vegas operations to service and amortize our wynn las vegas indebtedness and to pay development and construction costs of encore, which will reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; 18 table of contents we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; we may have a limited ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund development and construction costs of encore, satisfy working capital requirements, or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, in certain circumstances we will be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer and sell assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. the debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include minimum interest coverage and total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. future indebtedness or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the existing debt facilities. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to comply with these covenants. our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. we cannot assure you 19 table of contents that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. our subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. in the event of a default by any of our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. risks related to our business a downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. our business operations are affected by international, national and local economic conditions. a recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our property, could result in fewer customers visiting, or spending less money at, our properties, which would adversely affect our revenues. we have a limited operating history. our operations are subject to the significant business, economic, regulatory and competitive uncertainties and contingencies frequently encountered by new businesses in competitive environments, many of which are beyond our control. because we have a limited operating history, it may be more difficult for us to prepare for and respond to these types of risks compared to a company with an established business. if we are not able to manage these risks successfully, it could negatively impact our operations. we are entirely dependent on two properties for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are entirely dependent upon wynn las vegas and wynn macau for all of our cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at wynn las vegas or wynn macau; and the outbreak of an infectious disease such as the avian flu. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments with respect to our debt. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. competition for wynn las vegas. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments are currently underway. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las 20 table of contents vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size. wynn las vegas also competes with a large number of other hotels located in and near las vegas, as well as other resort destinations. some of our competitors have established gaming operations, are subsidiaries or divisions of large public companies, and may have greater financial and other resources than we do. wynn las vegas also competes, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in nevada and in atlantic city, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries, and other forms of gaming. the continued proliferation of native american gaming in california could have a negative impact on our operations. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers, including high-rollers, away from wynn las vegas. competition for wynn macau. currently, there are 24 operating casinos in macau. in addition, there are several large casino resorts currently under construction and development. sjm, controlled by stanley ho, who through another entity controlled the monopoly concession to conduct gaming operations in macau for more than 40 years, is one of the concessionaires and operates 17 of the 24 casinos that are currently operating in macau. sjm recently opened a portion of the grand lisboa, a resort opposite the rear entrance of the hotel lisboa, one of the main competitors in macau gaming. las vegas sands corp. opened the sands macao in may 2004 and is currently building the venetian macao resort hotel, an all-suites hotel, casino and convention center complex, with a venetian-style theme similar to that of their las vegas property. mgm mirage, in partnership with pansy ho, is building the mgm grand macau, a resort on the macau peninsula adjacent to wynn macau expected to open in late 2007. also, a joint venture consisting of melco, a hong kong stock exchange-listed company, and pbl, is currently developing the crown macau and a large resort in cotai, called city of dreams. crown macau, located in taipa, is anticipated to open in 2007. our casino concession agreement permits the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos after april 1, 2009. if the government of macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, wynn macau will face increased competition from casino operators in macau. wynn macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines, as well as pachinko and pachislot parlors in japan. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in thailand or penghu, taiwan are successful or if the reported large-scale new casino entertainment complex proposed in manila, philippines is developed, wynn macau will face additional regional competition. our business relies on high-end, international customers to whom we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table game revenue at wynn las vegas and at wynn macau is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of 21 table of contents gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. in addition, the collectibility of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce gaming debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau was changed to permit casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent that gaming customers of wynn macau are expected to be visitors from other jurisdictions, wynn macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and wynn macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. wynn macau inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on its operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for credit losses. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we would have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. if the laws are not changed, our business in macau may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers. although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax regulations in macau, there can be no assurance that the regulations will be changed. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. general . the operations of wynn las vegas and wynn macau are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. we received all approvals and opened wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. we opened wynn macau on september 6, 2006, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. wynn las vegas . the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. 22 table of contents nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. the suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. wynn macau . wynn macau operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to macau developing regulatory framework. wynn macau may need to develop operating procedures which are different from those used in united states casinos. failure to adapt to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau, s.a. concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we would be subject to the risk that macau gaming regulatory framework will not develop in a way that would permit us as a united states gaming operator, to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. the strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities wynn las vegas and wynn macau offer. changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the united states and elsewhere, military conflicts in iraq and in the middle east, and past outbreaks of infectious disease have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. we cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. an extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. in particular, because our business will rely heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations. in addition to terrorist activities, military conflicts, the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the avian flu or the impact of a natural disaster such as a tsunami or typhoon, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. we currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of 23 table of contents terrorist acts with respect to wynn las vegas and wynn macau for up to $500 million at each location for losses that could result from these acts. however, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations. in addition, insurance premiums have increased on available coverage, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. we may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. while we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. in the event that insurance premiums continue to increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverages we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. we have filed applications with the pto, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn las vegas and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of these marks is the use of the surname, wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) cannot be registered unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. even if we are able to obtain registration of the wynn-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states patent and trademark office and include wynn macau and wynn las vegas. some of the application are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. the company recognizes that its intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn , are among its most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of the company resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, the company has undertaken a program to register its trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions, some of which may pose a risk of unauthorized use or counterfeiting. the company has retained counsel and will take all steps necessary to not only acquire but protect its intellectual property rights against such unauthorized use throughout the world. if a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. however, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert 24 table of contents superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such allegations should be true, may have a material impact on our business. the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. in 2004, we extended the term of mr. wynn employment agreement until october 2017. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with us. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. in addition, if mr. wynn is no longer either employed by us as chief executive officer or serving as chairman of the board, other than as a result of death or disability or other limited circumstances, it would constitute a change of control that would require wynn las vegas to offer to repay the first mortgage notes and would constitute an event of default under its credit facilities and wynn macau, s.a. credit facilities. our two largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction. mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc. each own approximately 24.1% of our currently issued and outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to control all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. on november 13, 2006, the board of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. from nevada control share acquisition statute. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of the bylaw amendment, either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. or their respective affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., together with baron asset fund, have entered into a stockholders agreement. under the stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors, a majority of which will be designated by mr. wynn, of which at least two will be independent directors, and the remaining members of which will be designated by aruze usa, inc. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, in november 2006 this agreement was amended to require the written consent of both mr. wynn and aruze prior to either party selling any shares of wynn resorts that they own. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate 25 table of contents and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. risks associated with wynn macau a number of new casino resort developments underway or planned for the near future will require us to compete for limited labor resources in macau. we recruited a substantial number of new employees for the opening of wynn macau and must be able retain them in order to have a successful operation. wynn macau competes with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in macau and expected in the near future for the limited qualified employees. we will have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff wynn macau. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our wynn macau operations. the development costs of wynn macau are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. we expect the total development costs of wynn macau, excluding wynn diamond suites, to be approximately $1.2 billion, including the budgeted design and construction costs, cost of the land payments (through opening), capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses and all financing fees. the required cash interest payments and commitment fees on the bank facility which will become due through the estimated commencement date of operations of wynn macau have been included in our estimate of the total development costs. while we believe that the overall budget for the development costs of wynn macau is reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. although we have certain owners contingencies set aside to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs. not all of the construction costs of wynn macau are covered by a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, and we will be responsible for any cost overruns of these excluded items. we have entered into a guaranteed maximum price construction contract for the design and construction of wynn macau with leighton contractors (asia) limited, china state construction engineering (hong kong) limited and china construction engineering (macau) company limited, acting together as general contractor ( leighton/china state ). the contract covers approximately $484 million of the budgeted $685 million design and construction costs for wynn macau. we are responsible for cost overruns with respect to any budgeted components that are not part of the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. the financial resources of our contractor may be insufficient to fund cost overruns or liquidated damages for which it is responsible under the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. under the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations of the guaranteed maximum price construction contract, leighton/china state is responsible for all construction costs covered by the construction contract that 26 table of contents exceed the approximately $484 million guaranteed maximum price contained in the contract. the parent companies of the contractor have provided a continuing guaranty by which they guarantee the contractor full performance under the construction contract until final payment under that contract. we cannot assure you that the contractor or its parent companies will have sufficient financial resources to fund any cost overruns or liquidated damages for which they are responsible under the guaranteed maximum price contract. furthermore, neither is contractually obligated to maintain the financial resources to cover cost overruns. if they do not have the resources to meet their obligations and we are unable to obtain funds from them in a timely manner, we may need to pay these excess costs in order to complete construction of wynn macau. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. the success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau. in december 1999, after approximately 450 years of portuguese control, portugal returned macau to chinese administration. the people republic of china established macau as a special administrative region. as a result of this change in control, macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. we cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm wynn macau business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of wynn macau by disrupting our ability to timely construct the project and by preventing guests from traveling to macau. an outbreak of the avian influenza ( avian flu or bird flu ), severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ) or other contagious disease may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain asian countries and may adversely affect our results of operations. during 2004, large parts of asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian flu. in particular, guangdong province, prc, which is located across the zhuhai bridge from macau, has confirmed several cases of avian flu. currently, no fully effective avian flu vaccines have been developed and there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered in time to protect against a potential avian flu pandemic. in the first half of 2003, certain countries in asia experienced an outbreak of sars, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demand for goods to plummet in the affected regions. there can be no assurance that an outbreak of avian flu, sars or other contagious disease or 27 table of contents the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks, will not seriously interrupt our gaming operations or visitation to macau, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the perception that an outbreak of avian flu, sars or other contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in asia. our investment in macau may be subject to potential taxation. our investment in macau is owned through a number of wholly owned and partially owned domestic and foreign entities. although we believe that transfers to these entities of the assets and stock of the wynn macau companies were accomplished on a tax-free basis, there is a risk that the internal revenue service could assert that any appreciation in the transferred assets or stock was taxable at the time of such transfers. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act could have a negative impact on wynn macau. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), which generally prohibits u.s. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. the macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space 28 table of contents under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. we will stop generating any revenues from our macau gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, on that date, all of our casino operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. we also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the macau government has the ability to grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau, and the macau government is precluded from granting any additional gaming concessions until 2009. however, we cannot assure you that the laws will not be changed to permit the macau government to grant additional gaming concessions before 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. certain nevada gaming laws would apply to wynn macau planned gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. as we develop wynn macau, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. 29 table of contents such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar, and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau ability to service its debt, its results of operations and its financial condition. risks associated with the construction and development of encore the development costs of encore are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. the current project budget for encore is estimated at approximately $2.1 billion. while we believe that the estimated development costs for encore are reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. although we will have certain owners contingencies to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and would be dependent upon wynn resorts, which is not a guarantor of debt, to contribute additional capital to achieve final completion of the project. wynn resorts has no operations except for those of its subsidiaries, which are not obligated to satisfy any obligations or liabilities of wynn resorts. 30 table of contents we intend to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of encore and our substantial debt service and other obligations with cash flows generated at wynn las vegas, which may not be sufficient to fund such development costs and debt service obligations. our ability to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of encore, and to make interest payments under the credit facilities, the first mortgage notes and any other indebtedness, is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations at wynn las vegas. we cannot assure you that wynn las vegas will continue to be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such development costs and make the interest payments under the credit facilities, the first mortgage notes and any other indebtedness. our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors, including: our operating performance; the demand for services that we provide; general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting nevada or the hotel/casino industry in particular; our ability to hire and retain employees at a reasonable cost; competition; and legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business. some of these factors are beyond our control. any inability to generate sufficient cash flows to fund the development of encore or meet our debt service obligations would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, the financing documents for our wynn macau project contain restrictions on the distribution to wynn resorts of any cash flow generated by the wynn macau casino. thus, any cash flow generated by wynn macau may not be available to fund development costs of encore or service our debt. there are significant risks associated with major construction projects that may prevent completion of encore on schedule and within budget. major construction projects of the scope and scale of encore entail significant risks, including: shortages of materials or skilled labor; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of encore. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of a subcontractor work and payment for all of that subcontractor labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. encore may not commence operations on schedule or construction costs for this project may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete this project on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. 31 table of contents simultaneous construction of encore and expansion of wynn macau may stretch management time and resources and may impact wynn las vegas. both the development and construction for encore and the second phase of wynn macau continue. since there is some overlap of the development and construction of these projects, members of our senior management are simultaneously involved in planning and developing both of these projects which may divert management resources from the construction and/or opening of either project. management inability to devote sufficient time and attention to any one project may delay the construction or opening of either or both of the projects. any delay caused by such circumstances could have a negative effect on our business and operations. in addition, although we intend to construct encore with minimal impact on wynn las vegas, we cannot assure you that the construction will not disrupt the operations of wynn las vegas or that it will be implemented as planned. therefore, the construction of encore may adversely impact the business, operations and revenues of wynn las vegas. there are conditions precedent to the funding of the remaining components of the financing for encore. we expect that the remaining proceeds from the first mortgage notes issued by wynn las vegas, llc, together with availability under the wynn las vegas credit facilities, cash flow from operations from wynn las vegas, additional debt which may be raised and the equity commitment from wynn resorts, will be sufficient to fund encore current project budget estimate of approximately $2.1 billion. we have entered into a disbursement agreement with the agent under the credit facilities and the trustee under the indenture for the first mortgage notes, which sets forth the sequence of funding and establishes conditions for the disbursement of funds for the encore project. our ability to borrow, from time to time, under the wynn las vegas credit facilities and receive advances from the notes proceeds account is subject to various conditions precedent set forth in the disbursement agreement. we cannot be sure that we will be able to satisfy the conditions to funding at the time drawdowns are required to make payments of our construction costs. satisfaction of various conditions is subject to the discretion of the disbursement agent and the lenders under the credit facilities and/or their consultants and agent and may therefore be beyond our control. failure to satisfy the conditions to the drawdowns under the credit facilities could impact our ability to develop and construct encore. we may not have access to alternative sources of funds necessary to develop and construct encore on satisfactory terms. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. loss from extinguishment of debt totaled $12.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2006. on august 15, 2006 we refinanced our wynn las vegas senior credit facilities as discussed in further detail below (see liquidity and capital resources financing activities ). as a result of the refinancing and resulting modification of the term loan, we recorded a loss from extinguishment of debt for the year ended december 31, 2006 of approximately $10.8 million to reflect the write-off of the previous term loan unamortized deferred financing costs. in addition, on november 1, 2006, we redeemed the remaining approximate $10.1 million of our second mortgage notes and incurred a $1.7 million redemption premium which is also included as loss from extinguishment of debt. on november 13, 2006, the company board of directors declared a special one-time cash distribution of $6.00 per share on its outstanding common stock. this special one-time distribution was paid on december 4, 2006, to stockholders of record as of november 23, 2006. as part of this distribution, the company made a special payment to the holders of its debentures so that they participated in the special distribution as if they had converted their debentures to common stock prior to the record date. the company paid holders of the debentures a cash amount equal to $260.87 per $1,000 principal amount, or $58.5 million in total. in accordance with the indenture governing the debentures, as a result of the payment, no adjustment was made to the conversion price as a result of the special cash distribution. the payment was recorded as a distribution to convertible debenture holders in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. gain on sale of subconcession right on march 4, 2006, we entered into an agreement with pbl pursuant to which we agreed to sell to pbl for $900 million, the right to negotiate with the government of macau for a subconcession to allow pbl to operate casinos in macau. 42 table of contents on september 8, 2006, the government of macau approved the subconcession and on september 11, 2006, pbl paid $900 million in cash to wynn macau, s.a. for the subconcession right. as a result of the sale and the subconcession awarded to pbl by the government of macau, we have no continuing rights or obligations with respect to the subconcession. all rights and obligations under the subconcession are between pbl and the government of macau. the proceeds from this sale, net of related costs, are recorded as gain on sale of subconcession right, net in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended december 31, 2006. income taxes for the year ended december 31, 2006, our effective tax rate was approximately 21.3%. this rate was lower than the federal statutory rate due to the reduction of our valuation allowance in connection with the sale of the pbl subconcession right and a reduced effective tax rate on our foreign operations (see footnote 17 income taxes). their were no comparable items in 2004 and 2005 as we had not yet reached a conclusion that it was more likely than not that our net deferred tax assets were realizable. effective september 6, 2006, we received a 5-year exemption from macau 12% complementary tax on casino gaming profits. accordingly, we were exempted from the payment of approximately $4.7 million in such taxes. wynn macau non-gaming profits remain subject to the macau complementary tax and wynn macau casino winnings remain subject to the macau special gaming tax and other levies in accordance with its concession agreement. financial results for the year ended december 31, 2005 compared to financial results for the year ended december 31, 2004. the 248 days of operations at wynn las vegas during the year ended december 31, 2005 have no comparisons to 2004 as we were solely a development stage company prior to the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005. revenues wynn las vegas net gaming revenues were $353.7 million for the 248 days of operations during the year ended december 31, 2005. during that period, the average table games win percentage (before discounts) of 21.5% was within the expected range of 18% to 22%, and the slot win percentage was within the expected range of 5% to 6% of handle. for the 248 days of operations in 2005, wynn las vegas gross room revenues were approximately $170.3 million. adr and occupancy for that period were $274 and 92.1%, respectively, generating revpar of $253. other non-gaming revenues included food and beverage revenues of approximately $173.7 million, retail revenues of approximately $51.2 million, entertainment revenues of approximately $41.8 million, and other revenues from outlets, including the spa and salon, of approximately $32.2 million. departmental, administrative, and other expenses for the year ended december 31, 2005, departmental expenses included casino expenses of $155.1 million, rooms expenses of $44.2 million, food and beverage expenses of $118.7 million, and entertainment, retail and other expenses of $80.2 million. also included are general and administrative expenses of approximately $119.0 million and approximately $16.2 million charged as a provision for doubtful accounts receivable. at opening, wynn las vegas employed approximately 9,200 persons to accommodate increased opening needs. natural staffing attrition reduced the number of employees at the end of 2005 to approximately 8,900 persons. pre-opening costs pre-opening costs were $96.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2005 compared with $81.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2004. pre-opening costs related to our wynn las vegas project were $67.5 43 table of contents million and $41.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the large amount of pre-opening costs incurred in 2005 was due primarily to the substantial increase in staffing preceding the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005. pre-opening costs related to our wynn macau project were $20.4 million and $16.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. wynn macau pre-opening costs continued to increase through the opening in the third quarter of 2006. included in pre-opening costs are corporate costs of $9.1 million and $24.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. after wynn las vegas opened on april 28, 2005, such corporate expenses were charged to general and administrative expense instead of pre-opening. corporate staffing and related costs did not increase significantly immediately before or after opening of wynn las vegas; instead, the decrease in corporate expenses is due primarily to having a 117-day pre-opening period in 2005, compared with a 365-day pre-opening period in 2004. depreciation and amortization depreciation and amortization expense was $103.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2005, compared to $7.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2004. this increase is primarily due to the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005. during the construction of wynn las vegas, costs incurred in the construction of the buildings, improvements to land and the purchases of assets for use in operations were capitalized. once wynn las vegas opened and these assets were placed into service, we began recognizing the associated depreciation expense. the depreciation expenses will continue throughout the estimated useful lives of these assets. in addition, we continually evaluate the useful life of our property and equipment, intangibles and other assets. when circumstances require a revision to those estimates of useful life, we adjust them accordingly. property charges and other in response to our evaluation of the finished product and in response to the reactions of our guests, we began to make enhancements and refinements to wynn las vegas in the third quarter of 2005. included in the total $14.3 million for wynn las vegas property charges and other for 2005 are approximately $9.4 million of costs relating to assets retired as a result of the remodel efforts at wynn las vegas, and approximately $3.1 million of expenses relating to the abandonment of improvements made to the temporary offices utilized during part of the construction and development of the resort. once we decided to remodel the broadway theater to present spamalot, we also wrote off approximately $1.6 million of costs incurred in 2005 in connection with the preliminary design and development of a third theater originally planned to house monty python spamalot, and later abandoned. there were no comparable wynn las vegas property charges incurred during 2004. property charges in 2004 instead reflect net losses on ordinary asset sales, including an aircraft sold in 2004 at a loss of approximately $550,000. other non-operating costs and expenses interest and other income increased by $19.6 million for 2005 compared to 2004. this increase is due primarily to the significant increase in the amount of average cash balances available and invested from the remaining proceeds of our 6-5/8% first mortgage notes due 2014 (the first mortgage notes ) and borrowings under the wynn las vegas, llc credit facilities that were invested during 2005, compared to 2004. interest expense, net, increased by $100.0 million for 2005 compared to 2004, due primarily to the significant decrease in the amount of interest capitalized once wynn las vegas opened, plus the increase in the long-term debt resulting from our december 2004 refinancing and credit facility borrowings during 2005. we seek to manage the interest rate risk associated with our variable rate borrowings, through balancing fixed-rate and variable-rate borrowings supplemented by the use of derivative financial instruments as required or considered necessary. we were required to, and did obtain through interest rate swap arrangements, interest 44 table of contents rate protection for portions of our borrowings under our credit facilities. these interest rate swaps are accounted for in accordance with sfas 133. during the year ended december 31, 2005, we recorded an increase in swap fair value of approximately $8.2 million resulting from the increase in the fair value of our interest rate swaps from december 31, 2004 to december 31, 2005. also during 2004, we recorded a $122.8 million loss from extinguishment of debt related to the early retirement of the majority of the original $370.0 million of 12% second mortgage notes due 2010 (the second mortgage notes ). this loss resulted from the write-off of associated deferred financing costs and original issue discount, as well as a 12% redemption premium, on the second mortgage notes. we repurchased the remaining principal amount of the second mortgage notes totaling approximately $10.1 million on november 1, 2006 (the first available call date), at which time an additional loss of $1.7 million was recorded to reflect the redemption premium and write-off of the remaining financing costs. liquidity and capital resources cash flow from operations our operating cash flows are primarily affected by our operating income generated by wynn las vegas and wynn macau, interest paid, and non-cash charges included in operating income. net cash from operations for the year ended december 31, 2006 was $240.8 million compared to $48.5 million provided by operations for the year ended december 31, 2005. prior to the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, we were solely a development stage company and did not generate operational cash flow. capital resources we require a certain amount of cash on hand for operations. our cash balances at december 31, 2006, were higher than in prior periods due to the opening of wynn macau and approximately $517 million remaining from the $900 million cash received from pbl on september 11, 2006. at december 31, 2006, we had approximately $789.4 million of cash and cash equivalents available for new development activities, general corporate purposes, enhancements to wynn las vegas and wynn macau, and to support the development and construction of encore and the second phase of wynn macau. of this amount, approximately $54.7 million is held by wynn resorts, limited, which is not a guarantor of the debt of its subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a. however, wynn resorts, limited has provided an equity commitment agreement to wynn las vegas, llc secured lenders, which obligates wynn resorts, limited to contribute up to $70 million for encore project costs if wynn las vegas, llc is unable to pay such costs. at december 31, 2006, we had approximately $237.4 million in cash and investments from the proceeds of our debt and equity financings, which is restricted for the following: construction, development and pre-opening expenses of encore; construction, development and pre-opening expenses of the second phase of wynn macau; remaining costs to be paid in relation to wynn macau first phase; $30 million of contingent equity restricted for wynn macau; $80 million restricted for the wynn las vegas liquidity reserve and completion guarantee ($30 million of which must be retained for encore); and remaining costs for completion of wynn las vegas, estimated to be approximately $3.2 million. cash equivalents include investments in overnight money market funds. restricted investments are kept in money market funds or relatively short-term, government-backed, marketable debt securities as required by agreements governing our debt facilities. 45 table of contents investing activities encore at wynn las vegas on april 28, 2006, we commenced construction on encore. we expect to open encore to the public in early 2009. design and construction is progressing as expected at encore. current construction activities in the various project sections since groundbreaking include the following: the high-rise concrete pours have been completed through the 15 th floor deck. the installation of the reinforcing rebar for the shear walls and columns for the 16 h floor is underway. construction of the guest self-park garage has reached level 6 with beams and deck forms installed. low-rise excavation is complete with the exception of the pool deck which has just begun. the footings for the main casino area are 95% complete. the employee parking garage located on our koval property is complete and in use. our project budget is currently estimated at approximately $2.1 billion, consisting of approximately $2.0 billion for encore and approximately $100 million for an employee parking garage on our koval property, an associated pedestrian bridge and costs incurred in connection with the theatre remodeling and production of monty python spamalot at wynn las vegas. the budget has increased from the previously announced $1.74 billion due to refinements in scope and market conditions for construction materials. the project budget will be funded from our existing credit facilities, remaining proceeds from the first mortgage notes and operating cash flow from wynn las vegas. to the extent additional funds are required, we will provide these amounts with additional debt and equity contributions by wynn resorts. on march 31, 2006, wynn resorts delivered an equity commitment to its bank lenders under which wynn resorts is obligated to pay project costs if wynn las vegas is unable to. as of august 2006, wynn resorts obligation under the equity commitment was $70 million. on february 27, 2007, we entered into a design build architectural, engineering and construction services agreement (the contract ) with tutor-saliba corporation ( tutor ) for the design and construction of encore. the contract sets forth all of the terms and conditions pursuant to which tutor will design and construct encore. in addition to the terms and conditions governing the design and construction of encore, the contract provides that the parties will negotiate a guaranteed maximum price (the encore gmp ) for the construction and design of encore within 90 days of execution of the contract. if the parties cannot mutually agree upon a gmp during the 90 day period, the company can, at its option, (a) continue to employ tutor for construction and design services on a cost-plus basis, (b) agree to alternative arrangements with tutor or (c) terminate the contract. in connection with the execution and delivery of the contract, tutor and the ronald n. tutor separate trust (the trust ) have entered into and consented to a net worth agreement pursuant to which (x) the trust agreed that it will retain its current majority holdings of tutor and (y) the trust and tutor agreed that during the term of the contract, tutor will maintain (i) net worth of at least $100 million, and (ii) liquid assets of at least $50 million. as of december 31, 2006, we incurred approximately $277.6 million of project costs related to the development and construction of encore and related capital improvements. these costs, net of approximately $8.1 million of retention, have been funded from the wynn las vegas credit facilities, the remaining funds from the first mortgage notes and cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas. prior to signing a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, we are permitted to spend up to $300 million of the proceeds of the first mortgage notes and the credit facilities on encore project costs. as of december 31, 2006, we have spent or committed approximately $206.3 million using these debt proceeds. the remaining $63.2 million has been funded from cash flows from operations. the ongoing costs of encore will be paid with funds from the following sources and in the following order of priority: first, by using agreed amounts of excess cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and any equity contributions from wynn resorts; 46 table of contents second, by using any proceeds from the first mortgage notes (including any additional first mortgage notes that may be issued in the future), and the proceeds of borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit facilities, until exhaustion of the first mortgage notes proceeds, with amounts funded 66.67% from notes proceeds and 33.33% from the wynn las vegas credit facilities; third, by using proceeds of additional borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit facilities and; fourth, by using the funds from the completion guarantee deposit account. wynn las vegas in the third quarter of 2005, we began to make certain enhancements and refinements to wynn las vegas. as a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures relating to these enhancements and refinements. under the terms of the wynn las vegas credit facilities, we were permitted to make up to $100 million of capital expenditures in 2006, of which we have expended approximately $52.8 million. for 2007, we will be permitted to spend $172.2 million including $47.2 million which is carried forward from 2006. the spending limit will be increased to the extent funds are contributed to wynn las vegas by wynn resorts, limited. le reve production rights on may 31, 2006, we entered into an agreement to acquire substantially all intellectual property rights related to le reve, which were previously only licensed to us. we paid $15.9 million to acquire substantially all of the rights in and to le reve, and to repay approximately $1.4 million of production costs, which were reimbursable to the executive producer of le reve . the rights acquired enable us to produce, present, enhance, or alter the performance of le reve after may 31, 2006. wynn macau the first phase of wynn macau was completed, and the casino resort opened, on september 6, 2006. the construction of the second phase is progressing and is scheduled to open in the third quarter of 2007. the overall wynn macau project remains within budget and the second phase is progressing according to the expected timeframe. significant construction accomplishments for the second phase include: completion of the building sub-structure (i.e. below ground pilings and footings) and above ground super structure; completion of the external walls and roof; steady progress of the interior fit out and mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems; and occupation by permit for certain portions of the ground floor public space. the current total project budget for wynn macau (excluding the developing budget for wynn diamond suites and related amenities) is approximately $1.2 billion, including contingencies, but excluding up to $20.5 million of post-opening land concession payments anticipated to be funded from operating cash flows. under the amended and restated construction contract, the general contractor is responsible for both the construction and design of the project (other than certain limited portions to be designed by one of our subsidiaries) based on an existing scope of work and design specifications for both the first phase and the expansion as provided by us, for a guaranteed maximum price of approximately $484 million (including the contractors fee and contingency). on june 22, 2006, wynn macau, s.a. received consent from its lending syndicate permitting wynn macau, s.a. to enter into three change orders to its guaranteed maximum price construction contract. the three change orders implement a series of amendments to the construction contract including, providing for the completion of the majority of the first floor of the wynn macau expansion as additional gaming space, a series of 47 table of contents enhancements and upgrades to the overall project, and adding an electronic marquee sign at the entrance to wynn macau. the change orders increased the guaranteed maximum price under the construction contract from $457 million to approximately $484 million. as of december 31, 2006, the company has incurred approximately $877.1 million of the total project budget (excluding wynn diamond suites) of approximately $1.2 billion. financing activities wynn las vegas and encore on august 15, 2006, we refinanced our revolving credit facility (the revolver ) and our delay draw term loan facility (the term loan )(together, the wynn las vegas credit facilities ). on august 15, 2006, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the amended and restated credit agreement ) which, among other things, (i) increased the wynn las vegas credit facilities from $1.0 billion to $1.125 billion by increasing the revolver from $600 million to $900 million and reducing the term loan from $400 million to $225 million; (ii) reduced the borrowing margins on london interbank offered rate ( libor )-based revolver and term loan to 1.625% and 1.875%, respectively; (iii) extended the maturity dates for the revolver and the term loans to 2011 and 2013, respectively; and (iv) reduced the consolidated interest coverage ratio requirement for quarterly periods on or prior to december 31, 2007 to 2.00:1. the amended and restated credit agreement also: (i) reduced the range of the revolver annual libor borrowing margin after the opening of encore from a range of 1.25% to 2.50% to a range of 1.00% to 1.75%, depending on our leverage ratio; and (ii) simplified the procedures for and conditions to obtaining advances and reduced the reporting obligations under the amended and restated credit agreement upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, including fully utilizing all previously funded amounts under the first mortgage notes for payment of encore project costs. as a result of the refinancing discussed above, borrowings under the term loan were reduced to $225 million, under which we have elected, and expect to continue to elect, eurodollar loans which bear interest at 1-month libor and include a margin of 1.875% on that outstanding balance. we had two $200 million notional amount interest rate swaps to essentially fix the interest on the $400 million of former term loan. when we completed the refinancing on august 15, 2006, we terminated one of the two swaps and received approximately $6.6 million in the transaction. we elected to retain the other swap and therefore it effectively fixes the interest rate on $200 million out of the total $225 million of current term loan (for further information, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative discussions about market risk). as of december 31, 2006, a total of $88.9 million was outstanding under the revolver, primarily for the construction of encore. consequently, $811.1 million remains available under the revolver for future borrowings for the construction of encore or for other uses as necessary. for borrowings under the revolver, we have elected, and expect to continue to elect, eurodollar loans, which bear interest at 1-month libor and currently include a margin of 1.625% on the outstanding balance. after opening encore, the margin will fluctuate between a range of 1.0% to 1.75%, depending on our leverage ratio. in addition to interest, we also pay quarterly in arrears, an annual rate of 0.375% on the daily average of unborrowed availability under the revolver. after the opening of encore, the annual fee that we will be required to pay for unborrowed availability under the revolver will be based on our leverage ratio and will range from an annual rate of 0.25% to 0.50%. the new $900 million revolver will terminate and be payable in full on august 15, 2011, $112.5 million of the $225 million term loan will be payable on september 30, 2012 and the remaining $112.5 million will be payable on august 15, 2013. the wynn las vegas credit facilities are obligations of wynn las vegas, llc and are guaranteed by and secured by substantially all of the assets (except the corporate aircraft) of each of its subsidiaries (other than 48 table of contents wynn completion guarantor, llc). the obligations of wynn las vegas, llc and the guarantors under the credit facilities rank pari passu in right of payment with their existing and future senior indebtedness, including indebtedness with respect to the first mortgage notes and senior in right of payment to all of their existing and future subordinated indebtedness. on march 31, 2006, wynn resorts delivered an equity commitment agreement to the lenders under the wynn las vegas credit facilities. under that agreement, wynn resorts had committed to pay up to $215.3 million of encore project costs if the company was unable to do so. the refinancing discussed above increased the aggregate amount available under the wynn las vegas credit facilities from $1.0 billion to $1.125 billion. as a result of this increase and with other funds becoming available to pay for encore project costs, wynn resorts maximum commitment to pay encore project costs was reduced from $215.3 million to $70 million in august 2006. we also have outstanding at december 31, 2006 approximately $38.5 million of an original $44.75 million borrowing secured by our corporate aircraft. this loan matures on march 31, 2010. principal and interest are payable quarterly, and interest is calculated at libor plus a margin of 2.375%. in addition to scheduled amortization payments, we are required to prepay the loans if certain events of loss with respect to the aircraft occur. beginning december 31, 2006, we may prepay all or any portion of the loan, subject to a minimum prepayment of $10 million. on november 1, 2006, we redeemed the approximately $10.1 million of the second mortgage notes that remained outstanding. funds to repay the second mortgage notes and interest had been placed in an escrow account in december 2004, specifically for this purpose. wynn macau financing for wynn macau design, development, construction and pre-opening expenses has been provided by a combination of cash on hand in the form of intercompany loans totaling $230 million, subordinated loan financing from wynn resorts totaling $80 million, a senior secured credit facility and cash flow from operations since opening. on october 31, 2006, wynn macau, s.a. repaid to wynn resorts the intercompany loan and the subordinated loan and interest using proceeds from the pbl transaction. wynn macau, s.a. senior secured credit facility of $764 million includes $729.7 million of senior term loan facilities, a hk$117 million revolving credit facility (approximately us$15 million), and an additional term loan facility of hk$156 million (approximately us$20 million). as of december 31, 2006, we had borrowed approximately $496.7 million under the wynn macau, s.a. senior secured credit facility. the term loan facilities mature in september 2011, and the revolving credit facility matures in september 2007. the principal amount of the term loans is required to be repaid in quarterly installments, commencing on march 14, 2008. the term loans bear interest at libor or the hong kong interbank offered rate ( hibor ) plus a margin of 2.75%. the senior bank facility also provides for further reductions in the margin on the term loans if wynn macau, s.a. satisfies certain prescribed leverage ratio tests. loans under the revolving credit facility will bear interest at hibor plus a margin of 2.5%. on june 22, 2006, wynn macau, s.a. received consent from its lending syndicate allowing wynn macau, s.a. to amend certain provisions of its credit agreement to permit wynn macau to fund the additional $68.4 million in costs associated with three change orders to its guaranteed maximum price construction contract and other increases in wynn macau project budget entirely from its existing $764 million senior secured credit facilities. the additional costs are to be incurred in connection with preparatory work for additional gaming space located in the expansion of wynn macau second phase, a series of enhancements and upgrades to the overall project, and an electronic marquee sign at the entrance to wynn macau. wynn macau will fund $60.5 million of costs from its existing $72 million contingent debt facility which is included in the $729 million senior term loan facility, and $7.9 million of costs from its existing $20 million credit facility with banco nacional ultramarino, s.a. 49 table of contents collateral for the wynn macau senior bank facility consists of substantially all of the assets of wynn macau, s.a. certain affiliates that own interests in wynn macau, s.a., either directly or indirectly through other subsidiaries, have executed guarantees of the loans and pledged their interests in wynn macau, s.a. as additional security for repayment of the loans. we began to draw under the senior bank facility in october 2005, after expenditure of the intercompany loans and subordinated funding. through december 31, 2006, we incurred approximately $877.1 million of the total $1.2 billion of budgeted project costs (excluding costs for wynn diamond suites). total budgeted project costs include construction and design costs (including construction contingencies) land acquisition costs related to the additional casino expansion and capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, financing fees and other costs. in addition to the above financing sources, we have $30 million of long-term restricted cash reserved as contingent equity. we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau, s.a. credit facilities. see part ii-item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. special cash distribution on november 13, 2006, our board of directors declared a special cash distribution of $6.00 per share on our outstanding common stock. this special distribution was paid on december 4, 2006, to stockholders of record as of november 23, 2006. as part of this distribution, we made a special payment to the holders of its debentures so that they participated in the special distribution to the same extent as if they had converted their debentures to common stock. we paid holders of the debentures a cash amount equal to $260.87 per $1,000 principal amount. in accordance with the indenture governing the debentures, as a result of the payment, no adjustment was made to the conversion price as a result of the special cash distribution. the total amount of the special cash distribution was $669.8 million. this special distribution was paid using a portion of the proceeds from the sale of our subconcession in macau as discussed above and corporate cash. off balance sheet arrangements we have not entered into any transactions with special purpose entities nor do we engage in any derivatives except for straight forward interest rate swaps. we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity. at december 31, 2006, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $4.4 million. contractual obligation and commitments the following table summarizes our scheduled contractual commitments at december 31, 2006 (amounts in millions): payments due by period less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 4 to 5 years after 5 years total long-term debt obligations $ 6.1 $ 254.2 $ 377.3 $ 1,749.1 $ 2,386.7 fixed interest payments 100.3 200.5 200.0 299.9 800.7 estimated variable interest payments[1] 62.2 108.8 60.7 19.8 251.5 operating leases 7.5 9.6 3.6 3.2 23.9 construction contracts and commitments 122.7 36.6 159.3 employment agreements 39.1 46.4 11.8 18.9 116.2 other[2] 83.3 49.2 30.4 268.9 431.8 total commitments $ 421.2 $ 705.3 $ 683.8 $ 2,359.8 $ 4,170.1 [1] amounts for all periods represent our estimated future interest payments on our debt facilities based upon currently existing commitments and libor or hibor rates as of december 31, 2006. [2] other includes open purchase orders, commitments for aircraft purchases, land concession and fixed gaming tax payments in macau and other contracts. 50 table of contents other liquidity matters wynn resorts is a holding company and, as a result, its ability to pay dividends is dependent on its subsidiaries ability to provide funds to it. restrictions imposed by our subsidiaries debt instruments significantly restrict certain key subsidiaries holding a majority of our assets, including wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a., from making dividends or distributions to us. specifically, wynn las vegas, llc and certain of its subsidiaries are restricted under the indenture governing the first mortgage notes from making certain restricted payments as defined in the indenture. these restricted payments include the payment of dividends or distributions to any direct or indirect holders of equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc. these restricted payments may not be made unless certain financial and non-financial criteria have been satisfied. the other credit facilities of wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a. contain similar restrictions; although the wynn macau, s.a. loan agreements permit distribution of the net proceeds of subconcession sales. if completion of encore or the second phase of wynn macau is delayed, then our debt service obligations accruing prior to the actual opening will increase correspondingly. wynn las vegas will fund its operations and capital requirements from operating cash flow and remaining availability under wynn las vegas, llc credit facilities. we cannot assure you, however, that wynn las vegas will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings available to us under the wynn las vegas credit facilities will be sufficient to enable us to service and repay wynn las vegas, llc indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs. similarly, we expect that wynn macau will fund wynn macau, s.a. debt service obligations with operating cash flow and remaining availability under its senior secured bank facility. however, we cannot assure you that operating cash flows and available borrowings will be sufficient to do so. we may refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of the indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. new business developments or other unforeseen events may occur, resulting in the need to raise additional funds. we continue to explore opportunities to develop additional gaming or related businesses in las vegas, as well as other domestic or international markets. there can be no assurances regarding the business prospects with respect to any other opportunity. any other development would require us to obtain additional financing. we may decide to conduct any such development through wynn resorts or through subsidiaries separate from the las vegas or macau-related entities. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock, including its common stock, that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability and orders the redemption, or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by our board of directors. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note or both, as required by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as we elect. any promissory note that we issue to an unsuitable person or its affiliate in exchange for its shares could increase our debt to equity ratio and will increase our leverage ratio. critical accounting policies and estimates management discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements. our consolidated financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. certain of our accounting policies require that management apply significant judgment in defining the appropriate assumptions integral to financial estimates. on an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates, including those relating to the estimated lives of depreciable assets, asset impairment, allowances for doubtful accounts, accruals for customer loyalty rewards, self insurance, contingencies, litigation and other items. judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, industry trends and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. however, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, and therefore actual results could differ from our estimates. 51 table of contents development, construction and property and equipment estimates during the construction and development of a resort, pre-opening or start-up costs are expensed when incurred. in connection with the construction and development of wynn las vegas and wynn macau, significant start-up costs were incurred and charged to pre-opening costs through the second quarter of 2005 for wynn las vegas and through the third quarter of 2006 for wynn macau, as anticipated. once wynn las vegas and wynn macau opened to the public, expenses associated with the opening of the resorts were no longer charged as pre-opening costs. however, start-up costs relating to encore and the second phase of wynn macau will continue to be charged to pre-opening costs until such projects are completed and opened. during the construction and development stage, direct costs such as those incurred for the design and construction of wynn las vegas and wynn macau, including applicable portions of interest, are capitalized. accordingly, the recorded amounts of property and equipment increase significantly during construction periods. depreciation expense related to capitalized construction costs is recognized when the related assets are put in service. accordingly, upon the opening of wynn las vegas and wynn macau, we began recognizing depreciation expense on the resort fixed assets. the remaining estimated useful lives of assets are periodically reviewed. our leasehold interest in land in macau under the land concession contract entered into in june 2004 is being amortized over 25 years, to reflect the initial term of the concession contract, which currently terminates in june 2029. depreciation on the majority of the assets comprising wynn macau, however, commenced in september of 2006, when wynn macau opened. the maximum useful life of assets at wynn macau is the remaining life of the gaming concession, which currently expires in june 2022. consequently, depreciation related to wynn macau will generally be charged over shorter periods when compared to wynn las vegas. costs of building repairs and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. the cost and accumulated depreciation of property and equipment retired or otherwise disposed of are eliminated from the respective accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in operating income or loss. we also evaluate our property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. for assets to be disposed of, we recognize the asset at the lower of carrying value or fair market value less costs of disposal, as estimated based on comparable asset sales, solicited offers, or a discounted cash flow model. for assets to be held and used, we review for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. we then compare the estimated future cash flows of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying value of the asset. if the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. if the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is recorded based on the fair value of the asset, typically measured using a discounted cash flow model. if an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. all recognized impairment losses, whether for assets to be disposed of or assets to be held and used, are recorded as operating expenses. allowance for estimated doubtful accounts receivable a substantial portion of our outstanding receivables relates to casino credit play. credit play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at wynn las vegas. we maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to pay their marker balances timely. these collection efforts may include the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, personal contacts, the use of outside collection agencies, and litigation. markers are generally legally enforceable instruments in the united states. markers are not legally enforceable instruments in some foreign countries, but the united states assets of foreign customers may be used to satisfy judgments entered in the united states. at december 31, 2006, approximately 59% of our casino accounts receivable were owed by customers from foreign countries. the collectibility of markers given by foreign customers is affected by a number of factors including changes in currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the customers home countries. 52 table of contents we evaluate our reserve for bad debts based on a specific review of customer accounts as well as management prior experience with collection trends in the casino industry and current economic and business conditions. as our customer payment experience evolves, we will continue to refine our estimated reserve for bad debts. accordingly, the associated provision for doubtful accounts charge may fluctuate. because individual customer account balances can be significant, the reserve and the provision can change significantly between periods, as information about a certain customer becomes known or as changes in a region economy or legal system occur. derivative financial instruments we seek to manage our market risk, including interest rate risk associated with variable rate borrowings, through balancing fixed-rate and variable-rate borrowings and the use of derivative financial instruments. the company accounts for derivative financial instruments in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. derivative financial instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities, with changes in fair value affecting net income (loss) or comprehensive income (loss) as applicable. share-based compensation in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123(r). this statement is a revision of sfas no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation and supersedes apb opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees, and related interpretations. sfas no. 123(r) establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods and services or incurs a liability in exchange for goods and services that are based on the fair value of the entity equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. it requires an entity to measure the costs of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award and recognize that cost over the service period. we adopted this statement on january 1, 2006 under the modified prospective method and use the black-scholes valuation model to value the equity instruments issued. the black-scholes valuation model uses assumptions of expected volatility, risk-free interest rates, the expected term of options granted, and expected rates of dividends. management determines these assumptions by reviewing current market rates, making industry comparisons and reviewing conditions relevant to our company. in applying the modified prospective method, financial statements of prior periods presented do not reflect any adjusted amounts (i.e. prior periods do not include compensation cost calculated under the fair value method). in march 2005, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin ( sab ) no. 107, share-based payment to provide interpretive guidance on sfas no. 123(r) valuation methods, assumptions used in valuation models, and the interaction of sfas no. 123(r) with existing sec guidance. sab no. 107 also requires the classification of stock compensation expense in the same financial statement line items as cash compensation, and therefore impacts our departmental expenses (and related operating margins), pre-opening costs and construction in progress for our development projects, and our general and administrative expenses (including corporate expenses). significant judgmental accruals we estimate liabilities for certain self-insurance, customer loyalty program reward redemptions, contingencies, claims and litigation and other items, as appropriate. management determines the adequacy of these estimates by reviewing the expected trends and from industry experience and adjusts the assumptions utilized as necessary. income taxes we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions where the company operates. we account for income taxes in accordance with sfas no. 109, accounting for income taxes 53 table of contents ( sfas 109 ). sfas 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets, net of applicable reserves, and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. the effect of a change in tax rates on the income tax provision and deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in the results of operations in the period that includes the enactment date. the company income tax returns are subject to examination by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities in the locations where it operates. the company assesses potentially unfavorable outcomes of such examinations based on the criteria of sfas no. 5, accounting for contingencies . quarterly, the company reviews any potentially unfavorable tax outcome and when an unfavorable outcome is identified as probable and can be reasonably estimated, the company then establishes a tax reserve for such possible unfavorable outcome. estimating potential tax outcomes for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental and may not be indicative of the ultimate settlement with the tax authorities. the company believes that it has adequately provided reasonable reserves for reasonable and foreseeable outcomes related to uncertain tax matters. sfas 109 requires recognition of a future tax benefit to the extent that realization of such benefit is more likely than not. otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied. during our development stage, we accumulated significant net operating losses, which generated significant deferred tax assets. because of the company limited operating history, we had previously fully reserved these net deferred tax assets. on september 11, 2006, we recorded a gain on the sale of the subconcession right. accordingly we determined that a substantial portion of these net deferred tax assets have become more likely than not realizable as defined by sfas 109. effective september 6, 2006, we received a 5-year exemption from macau 12% complementary tax on casino gaming profits. accordingly, during 2006 we were exempted from the payment of approximately $4.7 million in such taxes. wynn macau non-gaming profits remain subject to the macau complementary tax and wynn macau casino winnings remain subject to the macau special gaming tax and other levies in accordance with its concession agreement. recently issued accounting standards in june 2006, the fasb issued interpretation no. 48 ( fin 48 ) accounting for uncertainty in income taxes . this interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company financial statements in accordance with fasb statement no. 109, accounting for income taxes . the interpretation provides guidance on classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and translation. this interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2006. the adoption of this statement is effective january 1, 2007. we have estimated that the adoption of fin 48 will result in up to a $5 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings in the first quarter of 2007. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no 157, fair value measurements . this statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. accordingly, this statement does not require any new fair value measurements. this statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. we have not yet determined the impact this statement will have on our consolidated financial statements after it is adopted on january 1, 2008. in september 2006, the sec issued sab no. 108, considering the effects of prior year misstatements when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements . sab 108 requires companies to evaluate the materiality of identified unadjusted errors on each financial statement and related financial statement disclosure using both the rollover approach and the iron curtain approach. the rollover approach quantifies 54 table of contents misstatements based on the amount of the error in the current year financial statement whereas the iron curtain approach quantifies misstatements based on the effects of correcting the misstatement existing in the balance sheet at the end of the current year, irrespective of the misstatement year(s) of origin. financial statements would require adjustment when either approach results in quantifying a misstatement that is material. correcting prior year financial statements for immaterial errors would not require previously filed reports to be amended. sab 108 is effective for interim periods of the first fiscal year ending after november 15, 2006. the adoption of sab 108 did not have an impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as considered necessary. we cannot be sure that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2006 on our expected long-term indebtedness. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. accordingly, the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2006 of 5.3% and 3.9%, respectively are used for all calculations in the table below. as of december 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ 0.8 $ 0.8 $ 0.9 $ 0.9 $ 10.0 $ 1,524.1 $ 1,537.5 average interest rate 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 5.7 % 6.5 % 6.5 % variable rate $ 5.3 $ 114.3 $ 138.2 $ 171.9 $ 194.5 $ 225.0 $ 849.2 average interest rate 7.7 % 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.2 % 7.2 % 7.3 % interest rate swap information wynn las vegas as of december 31, 2006, we have one interest rate swap arrangement to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on a total of $200.0 million of borrowings under the current wynn las vegas, llc term loan facility, which bears interest at libor plus 1.875%. under this interest rate swap arrangement, we receive payments at a variable rate of libor and pay a fixed rate of 3.793% on the $200 million notional amount which expires on december 31, 2008. although this interest rate swap is highly effective economically in fixing the interest rate on this borrowing under the new term loan facility at approximately 5.7%, changes in fair value of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period are, and will continue to be, recorded as an increase/(decrease) in swap fair value as the swap does not qualify for hedge accounting. wynn macau as of december 31, 2006, we have two interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under wynn macau s.a. $749 million senior term loan facility. under the first swap 55 table of contents agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 4.84% on borrowings estimated to be incurred under the senior term loan facility up to a maximum of approximately $198.2 million, in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. under the second swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 4.77% on borrowings estimated to be incurred under the senior term loan facility up to a maximum of approximately hk$1.1 billion (approximately us$140.7 million), in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. the term of both swap agreements is from november 28, 2005 through november 28, 2008. these interest rate swaps are expected to be highly effective in fixing the interest rate on 50% of the us dollar and 50% of the hong kong dollar borrowings under the senior bank facility at approximately 7.59% and 7.52%, respectively. however, changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase/(decrease) in swap fair value as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. summary of historical fair values the following table presents the historical asset or (liability) fair values (reflected in deposits and other assets or in other long-term liabilities as appropriate) at december 31, 2006 and 2005 (amounts in thousands): wynn las vegas wynn macau total interest rate swap asset / (liability) asset / (liability) fair value: (amounts in thousands) at december 31, 2006 $ 4,789 $ (1,467 ) $ 3,322 at december 31, 2005 $ 10,523 $ (1,788 ) $ 8,735 the fair value approximates the amount the company would receive if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2006 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve: expected averages as of december 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ $ 538.5 $ $ $ $ $ 538.5 average pay rate 4.4 % 4.4 % average receive rate 4.8 % 4.8 % we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2006, approximately 87% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2006, an assumed 1% change in variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $3.1 million. 56 table of contents foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau ability to service its debt, its results of operations and its financial condition. we have not yet determined whether we will engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risk. 57 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2007, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $3.5 billion. in addition our wynn las vegas credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness in connection with potential expansion plans under certain circumstances in the future and both the wynn macau credit facilities and the wynn resorts term loan permit us to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include rights to: repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral, initiate judicial foreclosure against us, petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets, and we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the wynn las vegas operations to service and amortize our wynn las vegas indebtedness and to pay construction costs of encore, which will reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; we are dependent on certain amounts of cash flow from wynn macau to service the indebtedness associated with the wynn resorts term loan and wynn macau indebtedness, which reduces the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes at wynn macau; we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; we may have a limited ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund construction costs of encore and wynn diamond suites, satisfy working capital requirements, or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase. if we fail to pay our debts generally as they become due, unsecured creditors that we fail to pay may initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, subject to the requirements of the united states bankruptcy code, and such bankruptcy proceedings will delay or impact the repayment of our secured debt. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, in certain circumstances we will be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. 18 table of contents the agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and, designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. the debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include minimum interest coverage and total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. future indebtedness or other contracts could contain financial or other covenants more restrictive than those applicable to the existing debt facilities. our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to comply with these covenants. our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. if wynn macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness or otherwise become unable to make certain payments or dividends to us which we in turn use to service the wynn resorts term loan indebtedness, our ability to service the indebtedness of one or both of wynn macau or wynn resorts would be negatively impacted. our subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. in the event of a default by any of 19 table of contents our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. risks related to our business a downturn in general economic conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. our business operations are affected by international, national and local economic conditions. a recession or downturn in the general economy, or in a region constituting a significant source of customers for our property, could result in fewer customers visiting, or customers spending less at our properties, which would adversely affect our revenues. we are entirely dependent on two properties for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are entirely dependent upon wynn las vegas and wynn macau for all of our cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at wynn las vegas or wynn macau; and, the outbreak of an infectious disease such as the avian flu. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments with respect to our debt. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. competition for wynn las vegas. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments are currently underway. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with a large number of other hotels located in and near las vegas, as well as other resort destinations. some of our competitors have established gaming operations, are subsidiaries or divisions of large public companies, and may have greater financial and other resources than we do. wynn las vegas also competes, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in nevada and in atlantic city, new jersey, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries, and other forms of gaming. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers, including high-rollers, away from wynn las vegas. competition for wynn macau. currently, there are 29 operating casinos in macau. in addition, there are several large casino resorts currently under construction and development. 20 table of contents sjm, controlled by stanley ho, who through another entity controlled the monopoly concession to conduct gaming operations in macau for more than 40 years, is one of the concessionaires and operates 19 of the 29 casinos that are currently operating in macau. las vegas sands corp. opened the sands macao in may 2004 and the venetian macao resort hotel in august 2007. venetian macao is an all-suites hotel, casino and convention center complex, with a venetian-style theme similar to that of their las vegas property. mgm mirage, in partnership with pansy ho, opened the mgm grand macau, a resort on the macau peninsula adjacent to wynn macau in december 2007. also, a joint venture consisting of melco, a hong kong stock exchange-listed company, and pbl, opened the crown macau in may 2007 and is constructing a large resort in cotai, called city of dreams which is anticipated to open in 2009. our casino concession agreement permits the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos after april 1, 2009. if the government of macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, wynn macau will face increased competition from casino operators in macau. wynn macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. two large-scale casinos that are being developed currently in singapore will add further competition to the region. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in japan, or other asian countries are successful, wynn macau will face additional regional competition. our business relies on high-end, international customers to whom we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table game revenue at wynn las vegas and at wynn macau is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. in addition, the collectibility of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce gaming debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau was changed to permit casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. 21 table of contents we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent that gaming customers of wynn macau are expected to be visitors from other jurisdictions, wynn macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and wynn macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. wynn macau inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on its operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for gaming bad debt. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we would have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. if the laws are not changed, our business in macau may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers. although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax regulations in macau, there can be no assurance that the regulations will be changed. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. general. the operations of wynn las vegas and wynn macau are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. we received all approvals and opened wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. we opened wynn macau on september 6, 2006, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. wynn las vegas. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. the suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to macau developing regulatory framework. wynn macau may need to develop operating procedures which are different from those used in united states casinos. failure to adapt to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau, s.a. concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in 22 table of contents macau. moreover, we would be subject to the risk that macau gaming regulatory framework will not develop in a way that would permit us as a united states gaming operator, to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. the strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities wynn las vegas and wynn macau offer. changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the united states and elsewhere, military conflicts in iraq and in the middle east, past outbreaks of infectious disease and tsunamis have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. we cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. an extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. in particular, because our business will rely heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations. in addition to terrorist activities, military conflicts, the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the avian flu or the impact of a natural disaster such as a tsunami or typhoon, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. negative changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. we currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of terrorist acts with respect to wynn las vegas and wynn macau for up to $800 million at each location for losses that could result from these acts. however, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations. in addition, insurance premiums have increased on available coverage, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. we may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. while we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. in the event that insurance premiums continue to increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverage we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. we have filed applications with the pto, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts , wynn design and development , wynn las vegas , encore , wynn macau , and wynn diamond. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. 23 table of contents a common element of these marks is the use of the surname, wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) cannot be registered unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. even if we are able to obtain registration of the wynn-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states patent and trademark office and include wynn macau, wynn diamond, encore, and wynn las vegas. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. we have recognizes that its intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn , are among its most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register its trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions, some of which may pose a risk of unauthorized use or counterfeiting. we have retained counsel and will take all steps necessary to not only acquire but protect its intellectual property rights against such unauthorized use throughout the world. if a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. however, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such allegations should be true, may have a material impact on our business. the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. in 2004, we extended the term of mr. wynn employment agreement until october 2017. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with us. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. in addition, if mr. wynn is no longer either employed by us as chief executive officer or serving as chairman of the board, other than as a result of death or disability or other limited circumstances, it would constitute a change of control that would require wynn las vegas to offer to repay the first mortgage notes and would constitute an event of default under its credit facilities and wynn macau, s.a. credit facilities. our two largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction. mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc. each own approximately 21% of our currently outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to control all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. 24 table of contents on november 13, 2006, the board of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. from nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of the bylaw amendment, either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. or their respective affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. in addition, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., together with baron asset fund, have entered into a stockholders agreement. under the stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors, a majority of which will be designated by mr. wynn, of which at least two will be independent directors, and the remaining members of which will be designated by aruze usa, inc. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, in november 2006 this agreement was amended to require the written consent of both mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc. prior to either party selling any shares of wynn resorts that it owns. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges to air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. simultaneous construction of encore and of wynn diamond suites may stretch management time and resources and may impact wynn las vegas and wynn macau. both the development and construction for encore and wynn diamond suites continue. since there is some overlap of the development and construction of these projects, members of our senior management are simultaneously involved in planning and developing both of these projects which may divert management resources from the construction and/or opening of either project. management inability to devote sufficient time and attention to any one project may delay the construction or opening of either or both of the projects. any delay caused by such circumstances could have a negative effect on our business and operations. 25 table of contents in addition, although we intend to construct encore with minimal impact on wynn las vegas, and wynn diamond suites with minimal impact on wynn macau, we cannot assure you that the construction will not disrupt the operations of wynn las vegas or wynn macau or that it will be implemented as planned. therefore, the construction of encore and wynn diamond may adversely impact the business, operations and revenues of wynn las vegas and wynn macau. risks associated with wynn macau a number of new casino resort developments underway or planned for the near future will require us to compete for limited labor resources in macau. we recruited a substantial number of new employees for the opening of wynn macau and must be able retain them in order to have a successful operation. wynn macau competes with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in macau and expected in the near future for the limited qualified employees. we will have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff wynn macau. we cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our wynn macau operations. the development costs of wynn diamond suites are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. we expect the total development costs of wynn diamond suites to be approximately $600 million. while we believe that the overall budget for the development costs of wynn diamond suites is reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. although we have certain owners contingencies set aside to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs. not all of the construction costs of wynn macau are covered by a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, and we will be responsible for any cost overruns of these excluded items. we have entered into a guaranteed maximum price construction contract for the design and construction of wynn diamond suites with leighton contractors (asia) limited, china state construction engineering (hong kong) limited and china construction engineering (macau) company limited, acting together as general contractor ( leighton/china state ). the contract covers approximately $347.8 million of the budgeted $600 million design and construction costs. we are responsible for cost overruns with respect to any budgeted components that are not part of the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. the financial resources of our contractor may be insufficient to fund cost overruns or liquidated damages for which it is responsible under the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. under the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations of the guaranteed maximum price construction contract, leighton/china state is responsible for all construction costs covered by the construction contract that exceed the approximately $347.8 million guaranteed maximum price contained in the contract. the parent companies of the contractor have provided a continuing guaranty by which they guarantee the contractor full performance under the construction contract until final payment under that contract. we cannot assure you that the contractor or its parent companies will have sufficient financial resources to fund any cost overruns or liquidated damages for which they are responsible under the guaranteed maximum price contract. furthermore, neither is contractually obligated to maintain the financial resources to cover cost overruns. if they do not have the resources to meet their obligations and we are unable to obtain funds from them in a timely manner, we may need to pay these excess costs in order to complete construction of wynn diamond suites. 26 table of contents wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. the success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau. in december 1999, after approximately 450 years of portuguese control, portugal returned macau to chinese administration. the people republic of china established macau as a special administrative region. as a result of this change in control, macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. we cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm wynn macau business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of wynn macau by disrupting our ability to timely construct the project and by preventing guests from traveling to macau. an outbreak of the avian influenza ( avian flu or bird flu ), severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ) or other contagious disease may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain asian countries and may adversely affect our results of operations. during 2004, large parts of asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian flu. in particular, guangdong province, prc, which is located across the zhuhai bridge from macau, has confirmed several cases of avian flu. currently, no fully effective avian flu vaccines have been developed and there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered in time to protect against a potential avian flu pandemic. in the first half of 2003, certain countries in asia experienced an outbreak of sars, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demand for goods to plummet in the affected regions. there can be no assurance that an outbreak of avian flu, sars or other contagious disease or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks, will not seriously interrupt our gaming operations or visitation to macau, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the perception that an outbreak of avian flu, sars or other contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in asia. our investment in macau may be subject to potential taxation. our investment in macau is owned through a number of wholly owned and partially owned domestic and foreign entities. although we believe that transfers to these entities of the assets and stock of the wynn macau companies were accomplished on a tax-free basis, there is a risk that the internal revenue service could assert that any appreciation in the transferred assets or stock was taxable at the time of such transfers. 27 table of contents currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act could have a negative impact on wynn macau. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), which generally prohibits u.s. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. the macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. we will stop generating any revenues from our macau gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, on that date, all of our casino operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation 28 table of contents or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. we also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the macau government has the ability to grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau, and the macau government is precluded from granting any additional gaming concessions until 2009. however, we cannot assure you that the laws will not be changed to permit the macau government to grant additional gaming concessions before 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. as we develop wynn macau, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. 29 table of contents unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. risks associated with the construction and development of encore the development costs of encore are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. our project budget is approximately $2.2 billion, consisting of approximately $2.1 billion for encore and approximately $100 million for an employee parking garage on our koval property, an associated pedestrian bridge and costs incurred in connection with the remodeling of the broadway theater and production of monty python spamalot at wynn las vegas. while we believe that the estimated development and construction costs for encore are reasonable, these development and construction costs are estimates and the actual costs may be higher than expected. although we will have certain owners contingencies to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and would be dependent upon wynn resorts, which is not a guarantor of debt, to contribute additional capital to achieve final completion of the project. wynn resorts has no operations except for those of its subsidiaries, which are not obligated to satisfy any obligations or liabilities of wynn resorts. we intend to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of encore and our substantial debt service and other obligations with cash flows generated at wynn las vegas, which may not be sufficient to fund such development costs and debt service obligations. our ability to fund a substantial portion of the development costs of encore, and to make interest payments under the credit facilities, the first mortgage notes and any other indebtedness, is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from our operations at wynn las vegas. we cannot assure you that wynn las vegas will continue to be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such development costs and make the interest payments under the credit facilities, the first mortgage notes and any other indebtedness. our ability to generate cash flow depends on many factors, including: our operating performance; the demand for services that we provide; 30 table of contents general economic conditions and economic conditions affecting nevada or the hotel/casino industry in particular; our ability to hire and retain employees at a reasonable cost; competition; and, legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business. some of these factors are beyond our control. any inability to generate sufficient cash flows to fund the development of encore or meet our debt service obligations would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, the financing documents for our wynn macau project contain restrictions on the distribution to wynn resorts of any cash flow generated by the wynn macau casino. thus, any cash flow generated by wynn macau may not be available to fund development costs of encore or service our debt. there are significant risks associated with major construction projects that may prevent completion of encore on schedule and within budget. major construction projects of the scope and scale of encore entail significant risks, including: shortages of materials or skilled labor; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; and, unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of encore. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of a subcontractor work and payment for all of that subcontractor labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. encore may not commence operations on schedule or construction costs for this project may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete this project on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. there are conditions precedent to the funding of the remaining components of the financing for encore. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately $883.3 million available under our credit facilities, which we intend to use to fund construction of encore. we expect to use the availability under our credit facilities, the proceeds from a debt issuance in november 2007, and cash flow from operations to fund the remaining construction and development costs of encore. we have entered into an amended and restated disbursement agreement with the agent under our credit facilities which establishes conditions for the disbursement of funds for encore. we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the conditions to funding at the time drawdowns are required to make payments of our construction costs. satisfaction of various conditions is subject to the discretion of the disbursement agent and the lenders under our credit facilities and/or their consultants and agent, and may therefore be beyond our control. failure to satisfy the conditions to the drawdowns under our credit facilities could impact our ability to develop and construct encore. we may not have access to alternative sources of funds necessary to develop and construct encore on satisfactory terms or at all. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. loss from extinguishment of debt totaled $12.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2006. on august 15, 2006 we refinanced our wynn las vegas senior credit facilities as discussed in further detail below (see liquidity and capital resources financing activities ). as a result of the refinancing and resulting modification of the term loan, we recorded a loss from extinguishment of debt for the year ended december 31, 44 table of contents 2006 of approximately $10.8 million to reflect the write-off of the previous term loan unamortized deferred financing costs. in addition, on november 1, 2006, we redeemed the remaining approximate $10.1 million of our second mortgage notes and incurred a $1.7 million redemption premium which is also included as loss from extinguishment of debt. on november 13, 2006, our board of directors declared a cash distribution of $6.00 per share on our outstanding common stock. this distribution was paid on december 4, 2006, to stockholders of record as of november 23, 2006. as part of this distribution, we made a payment to the holders of our debentures so that they participated in the distribution as if they had converted their debentures to common stock prior to the record date. we paid holders of the debentures a cash amount equal to $260.87 per $1,000 principal amount, or $58.5 million in total. in accordance with the indenture governing the debentures, as a result of the payment, no adjustment was made to the conversion price as a result of the cash distribution. the payment was recorded as a distribution to convertible debenture holders in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. gain on sale of subconcession right on march 4, 2006, we entered into an agreement with publishing &amp; broadcasting, ltd. (pbl) pursuant to which we agreed to sell to pbl for $900 million, the right to negotiate with the government of macau for a subconcession to allow pbl to operate casinos in macau. on september 8, 2006, the government of macau approved the subconcession and on september 11, 2006, pbl paid $900 million in cash to wynn macau, s.a. for the subconcession right. as a result of the sale and the subconcession awarded to pbl by the government of macau, we have no continuing rights or obligations with respect to the subconcession. all rights and obligations under the subconcession are between pbl and the government of macau. the proceeds from this sale, net of related costs, are recorded as gain on sale of subconcession right, net in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended december 31, 2006. income taxes for the year ended december 31, 2006, our effective tax rate was approximately 21.3%. this rate was lower than the federal statutory rate due to the reduction of our valuation allowance in connection with the sale of the pbl subconcession right and a reduced effective tax rate on our foreign operations (see footnote 17 income taxes ). there were no comparable items in 2005 as we had not yet reached a conclusion that it was more likely than not that our net deferred tax assets were realizable. effective september 6, 2006, we received a 5-year exemption from macau 12% complementary tax on casino gaming profits. accordingly, we were exempted from the payment of approximately $4.7 million in such taxes. wynn macau non-gaming profits remain subject to the macau complementary tax and wynn macau casino winnings remain subject to the macau special gaming tax and other levies in accordance with its concession agreement. liquidity and capital resources cash flow from operations our operating cash flows are primarily affected by our operating income generated by wynn las vegas and wynn macau, interest paid, and non-cash charges included in operating income. net cash provided from operations for the year ended december 31, 2007 was $659.2 million compared to $240.8 million provided by operations for the year ended december 31, 2006. this increase is due to the full year of operations at wynn macau and improved results at wynn las vegas, especially in the casino department. 45 table of contents capital resources we require a certain amount of cash on hand for operations. our cash balances at december 31, 2007 included approximately $500 million remaining from the $900 million cash received from the sale of our subconcession on september 11, 2006 and $350 million borrowed under the wynn resorts term loan facility on december 31, 2007. at december 31, 2007, we had approximately $1.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents available for operations, new development activities, general corporate purposes, enhancements to wynn las vegas and wynn macau, and to support the development and construction of encore and wynn diamond suites. of this amount, approximately $402.3 million is held by wynn resorts, limited, which is not a guarantor of the debt of its subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a. in addition, we have availability under our wynn las vegas and wynn macau credit facilities as noted below under financing activities. at december 31, 2007, we had approximately $531.1 million in cash and investments from the proceeds of our debt and equity financings, which is restricted for the following: construction, development and pre-opening expenses of encore; $30 million restricted for the encore completion guarantee; and, $500 million restricted for repurchases of our common stock. cash equivalents include investments in overnight money market funds. restricted investments are kept in money market funds or relatively short-term, government-backed, marketable debt securities as required by agreements governing our debt facilities. investing activities encore at wynn las vegas on april 28, 2006, we commenced construction on encore. we expect to open encore in december 2008. design and construction is progressing as expected at encore. current construction activities in the various project sections include the following: the concrete floor slabs and structural steel are complete for the hotel tower. exterior glass installation is 95% complete. the furniture and equipment installation is complete up to the 6th floor. the low-rise casino concrete pours and the structural steel are complete. drywall is 80% complete in the convention area and 20% complete in the casino level, spa level, and back of house. taxi and valet tunnels are 60% complete and exterior enclosure of the entire low rise is 80% complete. our project budget is approximately $2.2 billion, consisting of approximately $2.1 billion for encore and approximately $100 million for an employee parking garage on our koval property, an associated pedestrian bridge and costs incurred in connection with the remodeling of the broadway theater and production of monty python spamalot at wynn las vegas. the project is being funded from our wynn las vegas credit facilities, operating cash flow from wynn las vegas and proceeds from the $400 million addition to the wynn las vegas first mortgage notes completed in november 2007. to the extent additional funds are required, we will provide these amounts with additional debt and equity contributions by wynn resorts or additional indebtedness to be incurred by wynn las vegas. on february 27, 2007, we entered into a design build architectural, engineering and construction services agreement (the contract ) with tutor-saliba corporation ( tutor ) for the design and construction of encore. the contract sets forth all of the terms and conditions pursuant to which tutor will design and construct encore. 46 table of contents in june 2007, we executed the first amendment to the contract which set the guaranteed maximum price for work under the contract at $1.3 billion. in connection with the execution and delivery of the contract, tutor and the ronald n. tutor separate trust (the trust ) have entered into and consented to a net worth agreement pursuant to which (x) the trust agreed that it will retain its current majority holdings of tutor and (y) the trust and tutor agreed that during the term of the contract, tutor will maintain (i) net worth of at least $100 million, and (ii) liquid assets of at least $50 million. as of december 31, 2007, we incurred approximately $998.7 million of project costs related to the development and construction of encore and related capital improvements. the ongoing costs of encore will be paid with funds from the following sources and in the following order of priority: first, by using agreed amounts of excess cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and the remaining proceeds from the $400 million addition to the first mortgage notes completed in november 2007; second, by using the proceeds of borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit facilities; and, third, by using the funds from the completion guarantee deposit account. wynn las vegas in response to our evaluation of wynn las vegas and the reactions of our guests, we continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to the property. as a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures relating to these enhancements and refinements. under the terms of the wynn las vegas credit facilities, we were permitted to make up to $172.2 million of capital expenditures in 2007, of which we expended approximately $60.1 million. for 2008, the limit under the wynn las vegas credit facilities is $272.1 million. the spending limit may be increased to the extent funds are contributed to wynn las vegas by wynn resorts, limited. wynn macau wynn macau was completed and the casino resort opened on september 6, 2006. during the year ended december 31, 2007 we completed an expansion of wynn macau which included additional gaming space, and additional food, beverage and retail amenities. in addition to the gaming and retail facilities that opened in the expansion referenced above, wynn macau opened its rotunda area which features a gold prosperity tree in conjunction with a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling level show incorporating a descending chandelier. in september 2007, we opened approximately 20,000 square feet of gaming space and one restaurant at wynn macau. the remaining portion of the expansion opened in december 2007. with the full completion of the expansion, wynn macau now has a total of approximately 380 table games and 1,270 slot machines in approximately 205,000 square feet of gaming space. wynn macau and its recently opened expansion were completed at a cost of $1.1 billion. as at wynn las vegas, in response to our evaluation of wynn macau and the reactions of our guests, we continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to this property. as a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures relating to these enhancements and refinements. wynn diamond suites in june 2007, we commenced construction on wynn diamond suites, a further expansion of wynn macau. we expect wynn diamond suites to open in the first half of 2010. design of the project continues to progress and current construction activities include the following: the pylons and diaphragm walls for the foundation are complete. pouring of the ground floor slab has commenced. 47 table of contents while the completed project budget is still being finalized, we expect total costs to be approximately $600 million. the project budget will be funded from our existing wynn macau credit facilities and cash flow from operations at wynn macau. in july 2007, wynn macau s.a. issued a notice to proceed and on november 8, 2007, executed a guaranteed maximum price contract for $347.8 million with leighton contractors (asia) limited, china state construction engineering (hong kong) limited and china construction engineering (macau) company limited, acting together as the general contractor for the construction of the wynn diamond suites. as of december 31, 2007, we have incurred approximately $53 million of project cost related to the development and construction of wynn diamond suites. financing activities wynn resorts, limited on june 7, 2007, our board of directors authorized an equity repurchase program of up to $1.2 billion which may include purchases of both our common stock and our 6% convertible debentures due 2015. the repurchase program may include repurchases from time to time through open market purchases, in privately negotiated transactions, and under plans complying with rules 10b5-1 and 10b-18 under the exchange act. these repurchases are included within the scope of our overall repurchase program discussed above. as of december 31, 2007, we had repurchased 1,889,321 shares of our common stock through open market purchases for a net cost of $179.3 million, at an average price of $94.89 per share. on june 15, 2007, we announced that we had called for redemption on july 20, 2007, all of the outstanding principal amount of our 6% convertible subordinated debentures due 2015 (the debentures ). prior to redemption, in july 2007 all of the holders converted their debentures into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $23 per share (a conversion rate of approximately 43.4782 shares per $1,000 principal amount of debentures). cash was paid in lieu of fractional shares. as a result, in july 2007, $224.1 million principal amount of the debentures were converted into 9,744,680 shares of our common stock. accordingly long-term debt was reduced by $224.1 million, equity was increased by $218.9 million, and deferred financing costs were reduced by approximately $5.2 million. on june 21, 2007, we entered into a $1 billion term loan facility (the term loan ). borrowings under the term loan are available in the form of a delayed-draw term loan facility available through december 31, 2007, with the option to increase the facility to $1.25 billion if certain conditions are met. as of december 31, 2007, we borrowed $1 billion under the term loan facility and no additional amounts are available. the term loan will mature and be payable on june 21, 2010. the term loan was available to fund (a) our equity repurchase program announced on june 7, 2007 and (b) up to $350 million for general corporate purposes. of the $1 billion drawn, $500 million has been included as restricted cash in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2007 as such amount may only be used to fund our equity repurchases. loans under the term loan accrue interest at our election of libor or a base rate, plus a borrowing margin as described below. interest on libor loans is payable at the end of the applicable interest period in the case of interest periods of one, two or three months, and every three months in the case of interest periods of nine months or longer. base rate loans bear interest at (a) the greater of (i) the rate most recently announced by deutsche bank as its prime rate, or (ii) the federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1% per annum; plus (b) a borrowing margin as described below. interest on base rate loans are payable quarterly in arrears. the borrowing margin is 2.25% for libor loans and 1% for base rate loans, if our net liquidity is equal to or greater than $400 million and 2.50% for libor loans and 1.25% for base rate loans, if our net liquidity is less than $400 million. for borrowings under the term loan, we expect to elect interest at libor plus a margin of 2.25% on the outstanding balance. we incurred a fee of 112.5 bps per annum of the actual daily amount by which the actual term loan commitment exceeded the outstanding amount of the term loan. 48 table of contents on october 3, 2007, we completed a secondary common stock offering of 4,312,500 shares with net proceeds of $154 per share or $664.1 million. wynn las vegas and encore as of december 31, 2007, our wynn las vegas credit facilities consist of a $900 million revolving credit facility (the wynn las vegas revolver ) and $225 million term loan facility (the wynn las vegas term loan ) ( together the wynn las vegas credit facilities ). for borrowings under the wynn las vegas term loan we have elected, and expect to continue to elect, eurodollar loans which bear interest at the 1-month libor and include a margin of 1.875% on that outstanding balance. we have a $200 million notional amount interest rate swap to essentially fix the interest on $200 million of the wynn las vegas term loan at the rate of 5.7% per annum. (for further information, see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative discussions about market risk .) as of december 31, 2007, there were no amounts outstanding under the wynn las vegas revolver. we do have $16.7 million of outstanding letters of credit that reduce our availability under the wynn las vegas revolver. consequently, $883.3 million remains available under the wynn las vegas revolver for future borrowings for the construction of encore or for other uses as necessary. for borrowings under the wynn las vegas revolver, we have elected, and expect to continue to elect, eurodollar loans, which bear interest at the 1-month libor and currently include a margin of 1.625% on the outstanding balance. after opening encore, the margin will fluctuate between a range of 1 to 1.75%, depending on our leverage ratio. in addition to interest, we also pay quarterly in arrears, an annual rate of 0.375% on the daily average of unborrowed availability. after the opening of encore, the annual fee that we will be required to pay for unborrowed availability based on our leverage ratio and will range from an annual rate of 0.25% to 0.50%. the $900 million wynn las vegas revolver will terminate and be payable in full on august 15, 2011. the wynn las vegas term loan will mature in two installments: $112.5 million will be payable on september 30, 2012 and the remaining $112.5 million will be payable on august 15, 2013. the wynn las vegas credit facilities are obligations of wynn las vegas, llc and are guaranteed by and secured by substantially all of the assets (except the corporate aircraft) of each of its subsidiaries (other than wynn completion guarantor, llc). the obligations of wynn las vegas, llc and the guarantors under the wynn las vegas credit facilities rank pari passu in right of payment with their existing and future senior indebtedness, including indebtedness with respect to the first mortgage notes and senior in right of payment to all of their existing and future subordinated indebtedness. in april 2007, we amended the wynn las vegas credit facilities to: (a) have the final completion as defined, be deemed satisfied for wynn las vegas with the resulting release of (i) all amounts in excess of $30 million from the completion guaranty deposit account, ($24.6 million), and (ii) the balance of funds in the project liquidity reserve account ($32.8 million), (b) increase the permitted expenditures for encore from $300 million to $500 million prior to the execution of a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, and (c) permit the issuance of up to $500 million of unsecured debt as and when permitted under the indenture governing the first mortgage notes. in october 2007, we further amended the wynn las vegas credit facilities to (a) permit the issuance of up to $500 million of secured indebtedness, in lieu of the $500 million unsecured indebtedness in the april 2007 amendment, (b) remove certain language related to the inter-company loan made by wynn las vegas to wynn resorts (macau) s.a. and (c) amend certain provisions governing wynn las vegas insurance related obligations. also in october, 2007, pursuant to the wynn las vegas credit facilities, wynn las vegas entered into a pre-agreed upon form of amended and restated master disbursement agreement with deutsche bank trust company americas as bank agent and disbursement agent. 49 table of contents on november 6, 2007, wynn las vegas, llc and wynn las vegas capital corp. (the issuers ), each a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, limited, issued, in a private offering, $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6 5 / 8 % first mortgage notes due 2014 at a price of 97.25% of the principal amount (the additional notes ). the additional notes were issued under the same indenture as the previously issued 6 5 / 8 % first mortgage notes. the additional notes rank pari passu with, and will vote on any matter submitted to noteholders with, the previously issued 6 5 / 8 % first mortgage notes. the additional notes are senior secured obligations of the issuers, are guaranteed by wynn las vegas, llc subsidiaries (subject to some exceptions), and are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the existing and future assets of the issuers and guarantors. the additional notes have not been registered under the securities act of 1933 or under any state securities laws. therefore, we may not offer or sell the additional notes within the united states to, or for the account or benefit of, any united states person unless the offer or sale would qualify for a registration exemption from the securities act and applicable state securities laws. we have agreed to make an offer to exchange the additional notes for registered, publicly traded notes that have substantially identical terms as the notes. $32.5 million note payable for aircraft on may 10, 2007, world travel g-iv, llc., a subsidiary of wynn resorts, entered into a $32.5 million term loan credit facility to finance the purchase of an aircraft. the loan bears interest at libor plus 1.15% and will mature on august 10, 2012. principal and interest payments are made quarterly beginning july 1, 2007. principal payments are approximately $542,000, with a balloon payment of $21.1 million due at maturity. wynn macau on june 27, 2007, wynn resorts (macau) s.a., amended its credit facilities, dated september 14, 2005 ( amended common terms agreement ), and entered into other related amendments and agreements with a syndicate of lenders. the amended common terms agreement and related agreements took effect on june 29, 2007 and expand availability under wynn macau, s.a. existing senior bank facility from $764 million to $1.550 billion, in a combination of hong kong and us dollars, including a $550 million equivalent fully funded senior term loan facility ( the wynn macau term loan ), and a $1 billion senior revolving credit facility (the wynn macau revolver ) (together the wynn macau credit facilities ). wynn macau, s.a. also has the ability to upsize the total facilities by an additional $50 million pursuant to the terms and provisions of the amended common terms agreement. the wynn macau term loan matures in june 2014, and the wynn macau revolver matures in june 2012. the principal amount of the term loans is required to be repaid in quarterly installments, commencing in september 2011. borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities bear interest at libor or hibor plus a margin of 1.75%. borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities will be used to complete the wynn diamond suites, make investments in other projects in and around macau and for general corporate purposes. as part of the amendment to the wynn macau credit facilities, wynn resorts limited remaining support obligations to wynn macau and $30 million in contingent equity previously provided by us has been released. collateral for the wynn macau credit facilities consists of substantially all of the assets of wynn macau, s.a. certain affiliates that own interests in wynn macau, s.a., either directly or indirectly through other subsidiaries, have executed guarantees of the loans and pledged their interests in wynn macau, s.a. as additional security for repayment of the loans. 50 table of contents $44.75 million note payable refinanced as $42 million note payable on march 30, 2007, world travel, llc, a subsidiary of wynn las vegas, refinanced the $44.75 million note payable. the new loan has a principal balance of $42 million and is due april 1, 2017. the loan is guaranteed by wynn las vegas, llc and secured by a first priority security interest in one of our aircraft. principal and interest are due quarterly with a balloon payment of $28 million due at maturity. interest is calculated at the 90-day libor plus 125 basis points. in connection with this transaction, we incurred a loss from extinguishment of debt of $157,000 related to the write-off of unamortized debt issue costs associated with the original loan. cash distributions on november 19, 2007, our board of directors declared a cash distribution of $6.00 per share on our outstanding common stock. this distribution was paid on december 10, 2007 to stockholders of record on november 30, 2007. for the year ended december 31, 2007, $686.1 million was recorded as a distribution in the accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders equity. of this amount approximately $3.3 million was recorded as a liability which will be paid to the holders of nonvested stock upon the vesting of that stock. on november 13, 2006, our board of directors declared a cash distribution of $6.00 per share on our outstanding common stock. this distribution was paid on december 4, 2006, to stockholders of record as of november 23, 2006. as part of this distribution, we made a payment to the holders of its debentures so that they participated in the distribution to the same extent as if they had converted their debentures to common stock. we paid holders of the debentures a cash amount equal to $260.87 per $1,000 principal amount. in accordance with the indenture governing the debentures, as a result of the payment, no adjustment was made to the conversion price as a result of the cash distribution. the total amount of the cash distribution was $669.8 million. this distribution was paid using a portion of the proceeds from the sale of our subconcession in macau as discussed above and corporate cash. off balance sheet arrangements we have not entered into any transactions with special purpose entities nor do we engage in any derivatives except for straight forward interest rate swaps. we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity. at december 31, 2007, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $16.7 million. contractual obligation and commitments the following table summarizes our scheduled contractual commitments at december 31, 2007 (amounts in millions): payments due by period less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 4 to 5 years after 5 years total long-term debt obligations $ 3.3 $ 1,007.1 $ 359.6 $ 2,177.4 $ 3,547.4 fixed interest payments 112.6 225.3 225.3 215.9 779.1 estimated variable interest payments[1] 116.8 197.2 86.1 34.1 434.2 operating leases 16.9 16.7 3.6 2.9 40.1 construction contracts and commitments 870.4 180.1 1,050.5 employment agreements 40.2 47.6 11.6 15.7 115.1 other[2] 59.6 66.1 18.7 99.0 243.4 total commitments $ 1,219.8 $ 1,740.1 $ 704.9 $ 2,545.0 $ 6,209.8 [1] amounts for all periods represent our estimated future interest payments on our debt facilities based upon amounts outstanding and libor or hibor rates at december 31, 2007. 51 table of contents [2] other includes open purchase orders, commitments for an aircraft purchase, land concession and fixed gaming tax payments in macau and other contracts. as further discussed in item 8 financial statements , note 17 income taxes , of this report, we adopted the provisions of fin 48, on january 1, 2007. we had $89.2 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of december 31, 2007. due to the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions, it is not practicable to assign the liability as of december 31, 2007, to any particular years in the table. other liquidity matters wynn resorts is a holding company and, as a result, our ability to pay dividends is dependent on our ability to obtain funds and our subsidiaries ability to provide funds to us. restrictions imposed by our and our subsidiaries debt instruments significantly restrict certain key subsidiaries holding a majority of our assets, including wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a., from making dividends or distributions to us. specifically, wynn las vegas, llc and certain of its subsidiaries are restricted under the indenture governing the first mortgage notes from making certain restricted payments as defined in the indenture. these restricted payments include the payment of dividends or distributions to any direct or indirect holders of equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc. these restricted payments may not be made unless certain financial and non-financial criteria have been satisfied. the other credit facilities of wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a. contain similar restrictions; although the wynn macau, s.a. loan agreements permit distribution of the net proceeds of subconcession sales. if completion of encore is delayed, then our debt service obligations accruing prior to the actual opening will increase correspondingly. wynn las vegas will fund its operations and capital requirements from operating cash flow and remaining availability under the wynn las vegas credit facilities. we cannot be sure, however, that wynn las vegas will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings available to us under the wynn las vegas credit facilities will be sufficient to enable us to service and repay wynn las vegas, llc indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs. similarly, we expect that wynn macau will fund wynn macau, s.a. debt service obligations with operating cash flow and remaining availability under our wynn macau credit facility. however, we cannot be sure that operating cash flows and available borrowings will be sufficient to do so. we may refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of the indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. new business developments or other unforeseen events may occur, resulting in the need to raise additional funds. we continue to explore opportunities to develop additional gaming or related businesses in las vegas, as well as other domestic or international markets. there can be no assurances regarding the business prospects with respect to any other opportunity. any other development would require us to obtain additional financing. we may decide to conduct any such development through wynn resorts or through subsidiaries separate from the las vegas or macau-related entities. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock, including its common stock, that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability and orders the redemption, or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by our board of directors. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note or both, as required by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as we elect. any promissory note that we issue to an unsuitable person or its affiliate in exchange for its shares could increase our debt to equity ratio and will increase our leverage ratio. critical accounting policies and estimates management discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements. our consolidated financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. certain of our accounting policies require that management apply significant judgment in defining the appropriate assumptions 52 table of contents integral to financial estimates. on an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates, including those relating to the estimated lives of depreciable assets, asset impairment, allowances for doubtful accounts, accruals for customer loyalty rewards, self insurance, contingencies, litigation and other items. judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, industry trends and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. however, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, and therefore actual results could differ from our estimates. development, construction and property and equipment estimates during the construction and development of a resort, pre-opening or start-up costs are expensed when incurred. in connection with the construction and development of wynn las vegas and wynn macau, significant start-up costs were incurred and charged to pre-opening costs through the second quarter of 2005 for wynn las vegas and through the third quarter of 2006 for wynn macau, as anticipated. once wynn las vegas and wynn macau opened, expenses associated with the opening of the resorts were no longer charged as pre-opening costs. however, start-up costs relating to encore and wynn diamond suites will continue to be charged to pre-opening costs until such projects are completed and opened. during the construction and development stage, direct costs such as those incurred for the design and construction of wynn las vegas and wynn macau, including applicable portions of interest, are capitalized. accordingly, the recorded amounts of property and equipment increase significantly during construction periods. depreciation expense related to capitalized construction costs is recognized when the related assets are put in service. upon the opening of wynn las vegas and wynn macau, we began recognizing depreciation expense on the resort fixed assets. the remaining estimated useful lives of assets are periodically reviewed. our leasehold interest in land in macau under the land concession contract entered into in june 2004 is being amortized over 25 years, to reflect the initial term of the concession contract, which currently terminates in june 2029. depreciation on the majority of the assets comprising wynn macau, however, commenced in september of 2006, when wynn macau opened. the maximum useful life of assets at wynn macau is the remaining life of the gaming concession, which currently expires in june 2022. consequently, depreciation related to wynn macau will generally be charged over shorter periods when compared to wynn las vegas. costs of repairs and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. the cost and accumulated depreciation of property and equipment retired or otherwise disposed of are eliminated from the respective accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in operating income or loss. we also evaluate our property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. for assets to be disposed of, we recognize the asset at the lower of carrying value or fair market value less costs of disposal, as estimated based on comparable asset sales, solicited offers, or a discounted cash flow model. for assets to be held and used, we review for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. we then compare the estimated future cash flows of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying value of the asset. if the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. if the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is recorded based on the fair value of the asset, typically measured using a discounted cash flow model. if an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. all recognized impairment losses, whether for assets to be disposed of or assets to be held and used, are recorded as operating expenses. allowance for estimated doubtful accounts receivable a substantial portion of our outstanding receivables relates to casino credit play. credit play, through the issuance of markers, represents a significant portion of the table games volume at wynn las vegas. however, 53 table of contents the issuance of credit at wynn macau is less significant when compared to wynn las vegas. we maintain strict controls over the issuance of credit and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to pay their balances in a timely fashion. these collection efforts may include the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, personal contacts, the use of outside collection agencies, and litigation. markers issued at wynn las vegas are generally legally enforceable instruments in the united states, and united states assets of foreign customers may be used to satisfy judgments entered in the united states. the enforceability of markers and other forms of credit related to gaming debt outside of the united states varies from country to country. some foreign countries do not recognize the enforceability of gaming related debt, or make enforcement particularly burdensome. we closely consider the likelihood and difficulty of enforceability, among other factors, when issuing credit to customers who are not residents of the united states. in addition to our internal credit and collection departments, located in both las vegas and macau, we have a network of legal, accounting and collection professionals to assist us in our determinations regarding enforceability and our overall collection efforts. as of december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006, approximately 65% and 59% of our casino accounts receivable were owed by customers from foreign countries, primarily in asia. the collectibility of markers given by foreign customers is affected by a number of factors including changes in currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the customers home countries. we regularly evaluate our reserve for bad debts based on a specific review of customer accounts as well as management prior experience with collection trends in the casino industry and current economic and business conditions. the following table presents key statistics related to our casino accounts receivable (amounts in thousands): december 31, 2007 december 31, 2006 casino accounts receivable $ 216,166 $ 148,929 allowance for doubtful casino accounts receivable $ 65,647 $ 35,183 allowance as a percentage of casino accounts receivable 30.4 % 23.6 % percentage of casino accounts receivable outstanding over 180 days 19.0 % 13.9 % the increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of casino accounts receivable is due to a normal increase in casino accounts receivable outstanding over 180 days. while collection efforts remain active, it is our current policy to fully reserve all accounts over one year old. our reserve methodology is applied similarly to credit extended at both wynn las vegas and wynn macau. as of december 31, 2007 and december 31, 2006, approximately 25% and 10% respectively, of our outstanding casino account receivable balance originated at wynn macau. as our customer payment experience evolves, we will continue to refine our estimated reserve for bad debts. accordingly, the associated provision for doubtful accounts expense may fluctuate. because individual customer account balances can be significant, the reserve and the provision can change significantly between periods, as information about a certain customer becomes known or as changes in a region economy or legal system occur. derivative financial instruments we seek to manage our market risk, including interest rate risk associated with variable rate borrowings, through balancing fixed-rate and variable-rate borrowings and the use of derivative financial instruments. we account for derivative financial instruments in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. derivative financial instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities, with changes in fair value affecting net income (loss) or comprehensive income (loss) as applicable. as of december 31, 2007, we had three interest rate swaps with changes in the swap fair values being recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. 54 table of contents share-based compensation sfas no. 123(r) establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods and services or incurs a liability in exchange for goods and services that are based on the fair value of the entity equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. it requires an entity to measure the costs of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award and recognize that cost over the service period. we adopted this statement on january 1, 2006 under the modified prospective method and use the black-scholes valuation model to value the equity instruments issued. the black-scholes valuation model uses assumptions of expected volatility, risk-free interest rates, the expected term of options granted, and expected rates of dividends. management determines these assumptions by reviewing current market rates, making industry comparisons and reviewing conditions relevant to our company. in applying the modified prospective method, financial statements of prior periods presented do not reflect any adjusted amounts (i.e. prior periods do not include compensation cost calculated under the fair value method). in march 2005, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin ( sab ) no. 107, share-based payment to provide interpretive guidance on sfas no. 123(r) valuation methods, assumptions used in valuation models, and the interaction of sfas no. 123(r) with existing sec guidance. sab no. 107 also requires the classification of stock compensation expense in the same financial statement line items as cash compensation, and therefore impacts our departmental expenses (and related operating margins), pre-opening costs and construction in progress for our development projects, and our general and administrative expenses (including corporate expenses). significant judgmental accruals we estimate liabilities for certain self-insurance, customer loyalty program reward redemptions, contingencies, claims and litigation and other items, as appropriate. management determines the adequacy of these estimates by reviewing the expected trends and from industry experience and adjusts the assumptions utilized as necessary. income taxes we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate. we account for income taxes in accordance with sfas no. 109, accounting for income taxes . sfas no. 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets, net of applicable reserves, and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. the effect of a change in tax rates on the income tax provision and deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in the results of operations in the period that includes the enactment date. sfas no. 109 requires recognition of a future tax benefit to the extent that realization of such benefit is more likely than not. otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied. during our development stage, we accumulated significant net operating losses, which generated significant deferred tax assets. because of our limited operating history, we had previously fully reserved these net deferred tax assets. on september 11, 2006, we recorded a gain of $899.4 million on the sale of the subconcession right. accordingly we determined that a substantial portion of these net deferred tax assets have become more likely than not realizable as defined by sfas no. 109. our income tax returns are subject to examination by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities in the locations where it operates. we assess potentially unfavorable outcomes of such examinations based on the criteria of fasb interpretation no. 48 ( fin 48 ) accounting for uncertainty in income taxes which we adopted on january 1, 2007. the interpretation prescribes a minimum recognition threshold a tax 55 table of contents position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. as a result, our income tax recognition policy related to uncertain income tax positions is no longer covered by sfas no. 5. fin 48 applies to all tax positions related to income taxes subject to sfas no. 109. fin 48 utilizes a two-step approach for evaluating tax positions. recognition (step i) occurs when we conclude that a tax position, based on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. measurement (step ii) is only addressed if the position is deemed to be more likely than not to be sustained. under step ii, the tax benefit is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. fin 48 use of the term more likely than not is consistent with how that term is used in sfas no. 109 (i.e. likelihood of occurrence is greater than 50%). the tax positions failing to qualify for initial recognition is to be recognized in the first subsequent interim period that they meet the more likely than not standard. if it is subsequently determined that a previously recognized tax position no longer meets the more likely than not standard, it is required that the tax position is derecognized. fin 48 specifically prohibits the use of a valuation allowance as a substitute for derecognition of tax positions. as applicable, we will recognize accrued penalties and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes. during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recognized no amounts for interest or penalties. effective september 6, 2006, we received a 5-year exemption from macau 12% complementary tax on casino gaming profits. accordingly, during 2007 we were exempted from the payment of approximately $26.4 million in such taxes. wynn macau non-gaming profits remain subject to the macau complementary tax and wynn macau casino winnings remain subject to the macau special gaming tax and other levies in accordance with its concession agreement. recently issued accounting standards in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no 157, fair value measurements . this statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. accordingly, this statement does not require any new fair value measurements. this statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. our adoption of sfas no. 157 on january 1, 2008 will not have an impact on the company financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities including an amendment of fasb statement no. 115. sfas no. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses related to these financial instruments reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. sfas no. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. the company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of sfas no. 159 will have on its consolidated financial statements. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141 (revised 2007), business combinations. sfas no. 141 (revised) establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. the revision is intended to simplify existing guidance and converge rulemaking under u.s. gaap with international accounting rules. this statement applies prospectively to business combinations where the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after december 15, 2008. the adoption of sfas no. 141 (revised) is not expected to have a material impact on the company financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, noncontrolling interest in consolidated financial statements, an amendment of arb no. 51. this statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interest in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent and for the deconsolidation of a 56 table of contents subsidiary. it also clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. sfas no. 160 changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented by requiring consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amount attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interests. the statement also establishes reporting requirements that provide sufficient disclosure that clearly identify and distinguish between the interest of the parent and those of the noncontrolling owners. this statement is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after december 15, 2008. the adoption of sfas no. 160 is not expected to have a material impact on the company financial position, results of operations or cash flows. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as considered necessary. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies will have the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2007 of our expected long-term indebtedness. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. accordingly, the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2007 of 4.60% and 3.25%, respectively are used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. as of december 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ 1,700.0 $ 1,700.0 average interest rate 6.6 % 6.6 % variable rate $ 3.2 $ 3.6 $ 1,003.6 $ 77.5 $ 282.1 $ 477.4 $ 1,847.4 average interest rate 5.8 % 5.8 % 6.8 % 5.2 % 5.7 % 5.8 % 6.3 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we account for these swaps under sfas no. 133 and its related interpretations. wynn las vegas as of december 31, 2007, we have one interest rate swap arrangement to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on a total of $200 million of borrowings under the wynn las vegas term loan, which bears interest at libor plus 1.875%. under this interest rate swap arrangement, we receive payments at a variable rate of libor and pay a fixed rate of 3.793% on the $200 million notional amount which expires on december 31, 2008. although this interest rate swap is highly effective economically in fixing the interest rate on borrowings under the wynn las vegas term loan at approximately 5.7%, changes in the fair value of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period are, and will continue to be, recorded as an increase/decrease in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of operations, as the swap does not qualify for hedge accounting. 57 table of contents wynn macau as of december 31, 2007, we have two interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau term loan. under the first swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 4.84% on borrowings estimated to be incurred under the wynn macau term loan up to a maximum of approximately $198.2 million, in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. under the second swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 4.77% on borrowings estimated to be incurred under the wynn macau term loan up to a maximum of approximately hk$1.1 billion (approximately us$140.3 million), in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. both swap agreements expire on november 28, 2008. these interest rate swaps are expected to be highly effective in fixing the interest rate on 100% of the us dollar and 35% of the hong kong dollar borrowings under the wynn macau term loan at approximately 6.59% and 6.52%, respectively. however, changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase/decrease in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of operations as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. summary of historical fair values the following table presents the historical asset or (liability) fair values as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, of our interest rate swap arrangements (amounts in thousands): wynn las vegas wynn macau all interest rate swaps asset / (liability) fair value at: (amounts in thousands) december 31, 2007 $ 416 $ (3,095 ) $ (2,679 ) december 31, 2006 $ 4,789 $ (1,467 ) $ 3,322 the fair value approximates the amount we would receive (pay) if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2007 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve: expected averages as of december 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ 538.5 $ $ $ $ $ $ 538.5 average pay rate 4.4 % 4.4 % average receive rate 2.4 % 2.4 % we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 58 table of contents interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2007, approximately 62% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2007, an assumed 1% change in variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $13.5 million. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. we have not yet determined whether we will engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risk. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 18 item 1b unresolved staff comments 32 item 2. properties 32 item 3. legal proceedings 32 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 32 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 33 item 6. selected financial data 35 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 36 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 61 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 101 item 9a. controls and procedures 101 item 9b. other information 101 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 102 item 11. executive compensation 102 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 102 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 102 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 102 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 103 signatures 118 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview wynn resorts, limited, a nevada corporation, was formed in june 2002, is led by chairman and chief executive officer, stephen a. wynn, and is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. we own and operate three destination casino resorts: wynn las vegas, on the strip in las vegas, nevada, encore at wynn las vegas located adjacent to wynn las vegas, and wynn macau, located in the macau special administrative region of the people republic of china ( macau ). we are also currently constructing encore at wynn macau, an expansion of our wynn macau resort. we review our results based on the following two segments: wynn las vegas (which includes encore at wynn las vegas) and wynn macau. for more information on the financial results for our segments, see item 8 financial statements , note 19 segment information . due to a number of factors affecting consumers, including a slowdown in global economies, contracting credit markets, and reduced consumer spending, 2008 was a difficult year for the casino resort business, particularly for u.s. operations. auto traffic into las vegas, airline capacity and air travel to mccarran international airport have declined, resulting in lower casino volumes and a reduced demand for hotel rooms. the deterioration in global economic conditions will likely continue to cause us to experience lower than historical hotel occupancy rates, room rates, casino volumes and profitability. as a result of these factors, cash flow from operations for the year ended december 31, 2008 was significantly less than that generated in 2007. the factors described above accelerated through 2008 with fourth quarter results in las vegas significantly weaker than 2007. additionally, in early 2009, we have experienced cancellation and attrition of group business at greater than historical levels. unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to wynn resorts, the company, we, us or our, or similar terms, refer to wynn resorts, limited and its consolidated subsidiaries. wynn resorts files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments of such reports with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). any document wynn resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e. washington, d.c. 20549 or at the sec internet site address at http://www.sec.gov. information related to the operation of the sec public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com, wynn resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party sec filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. information found on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. our resorts wynn las vegas wynn las vegas opened on april 28, 2005. we believe that the resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service with 2,716 rooms and suites, including 36 fairway villas and 6 private-entry villas for our premium guests. the tower suites at wynn las vegas is the only casino resort in the world to receive both the mobil five-star and aaa five-diamond distinctions. in january 2009, the spa at wynn las vegas earned five-star recognition from mobil and became the only spa in las vegas to earn such award. in addition, wynn las vegas was recognized for the second year in a row by michelin, the esteemed european restaurant rating system. in october 2008, three of our restaurants were awarded michelin stars. two michelin stars were awarded to alex and one michelin star was awarded to each of wing lei and daniel boulud brasserie. our resort also received five red pavilions, the highest honor for michelin rated accommodations. 3 table of contents the approximately 111,000 square foot casino features approximately 135 table games, a baccarat salon, private vip gaming rooms, a poker room, approximately 1,935 slot machines, and a race and sports book. the resort 22 food and beverage outlets feature six fine dining restaurants, including restaurants helmed by award winning chefs. wynn las vegas also offers two nightclubs, a spa and salon, a ferrari and maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 223,000 square feet of meeting space and an approximately 74,000 square foot retail promenade featuring boutiques from alexander mcqueen, brioni, cartier, chanel, dior, graff, louis vuitton, manolo blahnik, oscar de la renta and vertu. wynn las vegas also has a showroom which features le r&ecirc;ve, a water-based theatrical production. we believe that the unique experience of wynn las vegas drives the significant visitation experienced since opening. encore at wynn las vegas encore at wynn las vegas opened on december 22, 2008. this resort is located immediately adjacent to and is connected with wynn las vegas and features a 2,034 all-suite hotel as well as an approximately 72,000 square foot casino with approximately 95 table games, a baccarat salon, private vip gaming rooms, approximately 835 slot machines and a sports book. the resort 12 food and beverage outlets include five restaurants, many of which feature award winning chefs. encore at wynn las vegas also offers a night club, a spa and salon, approximately 60,000 square feet of meeting space and approximately 27,000 square feet of upscale retail outlets featuring boutiques from hermes, chanel and rock &amp; republic. the encore theater, featuring danny gans, opened on february 10, 2009. wynn macau wynn macau opened on september 6, 2006. wynn macau currently features approximately 600 hotel rooms and suites, approximately 370 table games, approximately 1,250 slot machines and a poker room in approximately 205,000 square feet of casino gaming space, five restaurants, a spa and salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 46,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from bvlgari, chanel, dior, dunhill, fendi, ferrari, giorgio armani, gucci, hermes, hugo boss, louis vuitton, miu miu, piaget, prada, rolex, tiffany, van cleef &amp; arpels, versace, vertu and zegna. in november 2008, wynn macau was the only hotel in macau, and one of only five hotels in asia, to receive the mobil five-star distinction. the spa at wynn macau also received the mobil five-star award. wynn macau includes a show in its rotunda featuring a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling and an interchangeable gold prosperity tree and a dragon of fortune . construction and development encore at wynn macau we have commenced construction of encore at wynn macau, a further expansion of wynn macau. encore at wynn macau will add a fully-integrated resort hotel to wynn macau, planned to include approximately 400 luxury suites and four villas along with restaurants, additional retail space and additional vip gaming space. while the completed project budget is still being finalized, we expect total costs to be approximately $700 million. we expect encore at wynn macau to open in 2010. as of december 31, 2008, we had incurred approximately $202 million related to the development and construction of encore at wynn macau. general in the ordinary course of our business, in response to market developments and customer preferences, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to our properties. we have incurred and will continue to incur these capital expenditures at wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau. other development opportunities approximately 142 acres of land comprising wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas is currently improved with a golf course. while we may develop this property in the future; due to the current economic environment and certain restrictions in our credit facilities, we have no immediate plans to develop this property. 4 table of contents we have applied to the government of macau for a land concession for approximately 52 acres on cotai and are awaiting final governmental approval of this concession. due to the current economic environment, no construction timeline or budget have yet been developed. we continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in las vegas, other markets in the united states and worldwide. our strategy we believe that steve wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. mr. wynn involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. we integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to a variety of customers. our properties were designed and built to provide a premium experience. we seek to position wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau as full-service luxury resorts and casinos in the leisure, convention and tour and travel industries. we market these resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. we also create general market awareness for our properties through various media channels, including television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards. mr. wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. the senior executive team has an average of approximately 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. we also have an approximately 70-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines. market and competition las vegas las vegas is the largest gaming market in the united states. the casino/hotel industry in las vegas is highly competitive and, prior to the recent economic conditions and interruption in projects under development, had undergone a period of exceptional growth, particularly with the addition of projects targeting the premium customer. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas are located on the las vegas strip and compete with these and other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos, those in downtown las vegas, as well as a large number of hotels in and near las vegas. many competing properties, such as the bellagio, caesars palace, luxor hotel and casino, mandalay bay resort &amp; casino, the mirage, new york-new york hotel and casino, paris las vegas, treasure island, the venetian, the palazzo and others, have themes and attractions which draw a significant number of visitors and directly compete with our operations. we seek to differentiate wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas from other major las vegas resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas may face additional competition from new multi-billion dollar resorts that are expected to open on the las vegas strip before the end of 2010 including, without limitation, city center, fontainebleau las vegas and cosmopolitan. there are several other large projects under development in las vegas which have been delayed or may be delayed. the addition of encore at wynn las vegas 2,034 suites also creates competition for wynn las vegas. while we are attempting to differentiate the product, at this time, we are uncertain how our customers will value the properties on a relative basis. 5 table of contents wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in nevada and atlantic city, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands and elsewhere in the world, as well as state lotteries and other forms of gaming. the proliferation of native american gaming in california could have a negative impact on our operations. in particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau, including our properties in macau, or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers, including highrollers , away from las vegas. reflecting the current economic environment, the las vegas gaming and hotel markets experienced the first decline in trends in five years during 2008 with, among other things, a 4.4% decrease in visitation to 37.5 million visitors, a 10.6% decrease in las vegas strip gaming revenue and a 9.8% decrease in average daily room rates, all as compared to the year ended december 2007. we, along with our competitors, have responded to the deterioration in consumer spending by aggressively marketing and pricing our las vegas offerings. macau macau, which was a portuguese colony for approximately 450 years, was transferred from portuguese to chinese political control in december 1999. macau is governed as a special administrative region of china and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and less than one hour away via ferry from, hong kong. macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 40 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland china, and two neighboring islands, taipa and coloane, connected by bridges. we believe that macau is located in one of the world largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. according to macau statistical information, casinos in macau generated approximately $13.6 billion in gaming revenue in 2008, a 31% increase over the $10.3 billion generated in 2007, making macau the largest gaming market in the world. macau gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. the macau market has experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last few years. as of december 31, 2008, there were approximately 17,490 hotel rooms and approximately 4,000 table games in macau, compared to approximately 12,978 hotel rooms and approximately 2,760 table games as of december 31, 2006. gaming customers traveling to macau have typically come from nearby destinations in asia including hong kong, mainland china, taiwan, south korea and japan. according to the macau statistics and census service monthly bulletin of statistics, approximately 90% of the tourists who visited macau in 2008 came from mainland china, hong kong and taiwan. macau completed construction of an international airport in 1995, which accommodates large commercial aircraft and provides direct air service to major cities in asia, including beijing, shanghai, jakarta, ho chi minh city, taipei, manila, singapore and bangkok. travel to macau by citizens of mainland china requires a visa. adjustments to the visa policy were made in 2008 restricting the frequency of visitation. government officials have the authority to further adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future. prior to 2002, gaming in macau was permitted as a government-sanctioned monopoly concession awarded to a single concessionaire. however, the government of macau liberalized the gaming industry in 2002 by granting concessions to operate casinos to three concessionaires (including wynn macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of macau, to each grant one sub-concession to other gaming operators. there is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. currently, there are 31 operating casinos in macau. the other two concessions were granted to sociedade de jogos de macau ( sjm ) and galaxy casino company, limited ( galaxy ). sjm, which is controlled by stanley ho, operates 19 of the 31 existing casinos, including two of the larger casinos in macau: the hotel lisboa and the grand lisboa. in addition, an affiliate of sjm owns most of the water ferry services and the helicopter shuttle service that link macau to hong kong. 6 table of contents galaxy was also awarded a casino concession in june 2002. galaxy is a company controlled by hong kong businessman lui chi-woo and a group of hong kong investors. galaxy opened the waldo hotel/casino on the macau peninsula in 2004, the grand waldo cotai in the summer of 2006, and galaxy star world hotel casino immediately adjacent to wynn macau in october 2006. las vegas sands corp., the owner and operator of the venetian and the palazzo resorts in las vegas and a former partner of galaxy, has entered into a sub-concession agreement with galaxy which allows it to independently develop and operate casinos in macau. the sands macao opened in 2004. in august 2007, las vegas sands corp. opened the venetian macao resort hotel, the largest casino resort in macau. in august 2008, las vegas sands corp. opened the four seasons hotel macau adjacent to the venetian macao. in addition, las vegas sands corp. has proposed a masterplan for other large developments in cotai that would include additional hotel properties as well as serviced apartment units and additional retail and related space. in late 2008, las vegas sands corp. suspended further development of its cotai masterplan as a result of conditions in the global economy and credit markets. a joint venture consisting of melco, a hong kong stock exchange-listed company and crown, ltd., an australian company, is currently operating the crown macau (which opened in may 2007) and is constructing the city of dreams, a large resort in cotai, the first phase of which is anticipated to open in 2009. this joint venture operates its properties under a subconcession purchased from us. in december 2007, a joint venture of mgm mirage and pansy ho chiu-king (stanley ho daughter) opened the mgm grand macau, a resort on the macau peninsula adjacent to wynn macau. the mgm grand macau is operated pursuant to a subconcession granted to the joint venture by sjm. our casino concession agreement allows the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos after april 1, 2009. if the government of macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, wynn macau will face increased competition from casino operators in macau. wynn macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. two large-scale casinos that are being developed currently in singapore will add further competition to the region. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming and other casinos throughout asia. geographic data geographic data are reported in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in item 7 management discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations. regulation and licensing the gaming industry is highly regulated. gaming registrations, licenses and approvals, once obtained, can be suspended or revoked for a variety of reasons. we cannot assure you that we will obtain all required registrations, licenses and approvals on a timely basis or at all, or that, once obtained, the registrations, findings of suitability, licenses and approvals will not be suspended, conditioned, limited or revoked. if we are ever prohibited from operating one of our gaming facilities, we would, to the extent permitted by law, seek to recover our investment by selling the property affected, but we cannot assure you that we could recover full value. 7 table of contents nevada introduction. the ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the state of nevada are subject to the nevada gaming control act and the regulations made under the act, as well as to various local ordinances. wynn las vegas operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the nevada gaming commission, the nevada state gaming control board and the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which we refer to herein collectively as the nevada gaming authorities. policy concerns of gaming laws. the laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the nevada gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. such public policy concerns include, among other things: preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the nevada gaming authorities; preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our las vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our subsidiary, wynn las vegas, llc, as the owner and operator of wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas, has been approved by the nevada gaming authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. these gaming licenses are not transferable. company registration requirements. wynn resorts was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn resorts holdings, llc ( wynn resorts holdings ), a wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the nevada gaming control act. wynn resorts holdings was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. in addition to being licensed, wynn las vegas, llc, as an issuer of first mortgage notes registered with the sec, also qualified as a registered company. wynn las vegas capital corp., a co-issuer of the first mortgage notes, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source. periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the nevada gaming commission and provide any other information that the nevada gaming commission may require. substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the nevada gaming commission. individual licensing requirements. no person may become a stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the nevada gaming authorities. the nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. certain of our officers, directors and key employees 8 table of contents have been or may be required to file applications with the nevada gaming authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the nevada gaming authorities. all applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. however, the nevada gaming authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason, which they deem appropriate. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the nevada gaming authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. if the nevada gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the nevada gaming commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in nevada. redemption of securities owned by an unsuitable person. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. if wynn resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. if the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the nasdaq global select market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and asked prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. wynn resorts right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. consequences of violating gaming laws. if the nevada gaming commission determines that we have violated the nevada gaming control act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the nevada gaming control act, or of the regulations of the nevada gaming commission, at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. further, the nevada gaming commission could appoint a supervisor to operate wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the state of nevada. limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. requirements for voting or nonvoting securities holders. regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of wynn resorts voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of wynn resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. the applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. 9 table of contents the nevada gaming control act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the nevada gaming commission. the nevada gaming control act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company voting securities to apply to the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board mails the written notice requiring such filing. under certain circumstances, an institutional investor, as defined in the nevada gaming control act, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of the registered company voting securities may apply to the nevada gaming commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. in certain circumstances, an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold up to 19% of a registered company voting securities for a limited period of time and maintain the waiver. an institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the nevada gaming commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company voting securities for investment purposes only. activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and, other activities that the nevada gaming commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. the articles of incorporation of wynn resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions. wynn resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in nevada which may be examined by the nevada gaming authorities at any time. if any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the nevada gaming authorities. a failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. we are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of wynn resorts voting securities. the nevada gaming commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the nevada gaming control act. the certificates representing shares of wynn resorts common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in wynn resorts articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws. consequences of being found unsuitable. any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the nevada gaming commission or by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. the same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the nevada gaming commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. we will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to wynn resorts; 10 table of contents pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or, fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. gaming laws relating to debt securities ownership. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the nevada gaming commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the nevada gaming control act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission, it: pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or, makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. approval of public offerings. we may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. on march 22, 2007, the nevada gaming commission granted us and wynn las vegas, llc prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of two years (the shelf approval ). the shelf approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board. the shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the nevada gaming authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. any representation to the contrary is unlawful. we have applied for a new shelf approval which is scheduled to be heard in march 2009. approval of changes in control. a registered company must obtain the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company. entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the nevada state gaming control board and nevada gaming commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. the nevada gaming commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. approval of defensive tactics. the nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. the nevada gaming commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon nevada gaming industry and to further nevada policy in order to: assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies; 11 table of contents preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and, promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. approvals may be required from the nevada gaming commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. the nevada gaming control act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. fees and taxes. license fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the state of nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries respective operations are conducted. depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or, the number of table games operated. a live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished. foreign gaming investigations. any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, licensees ), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of nevada, is required to deposit with the nevada state gaming control board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the nevada state gaming control board of the licensee or registrant participation in such foreign gaming. the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the nevada gaming control act. a licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if it: knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of nevada; engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the state of nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. the conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which has granted wynn las vegas, llc licenses for such purposes. in addition to approving wynn las vegas, llc the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. clark county gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. the county has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. 12 table of contents macau general. as a casino concessionaire, wynn macau, s.a. is subject to the regulatory control of the government of macau. the government has adopted laws and administrative regulations governing the operation of casinos in macau. only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the macau government and, to date, each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the macau government which, together with the law and administrative regulations, forms the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. under the law and administrative regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. the same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the macau government. concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the macau government and are ineffective without government approval. each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. the appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the macau government. all contracts placing the management of a concessionaire casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the macau government. concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. concessionaires are obligated to withhold, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. such withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. a games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. for a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. the term of a games promoters license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. under macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. these contractors are subject to approval of the macau government. changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. to conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the macau government. 13 table of contents macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters for the following year, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. the macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity. the government of macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. during any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. the government of macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. the government of macau also may terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract. concession agreement. the concession agreement between wynn macau s.a. and the macau government required wynn macau, s.a. to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of december 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately us$500 million) in macau-related projects by june 2009. this obligation was satisfied upon the opening of wynn macau. wynn macau, s.a. was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million pataca (approximately us$87 million) bank guarantee from banco national ultramarino, s.a. ( bnu ) that was effective until march 31, 2007. the amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million patacas (approximately us$37 million) for the period from april 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. this guarantee, which is for the benefit of the macau government, assures wynn macau, s.a. performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. wynn macau, s.a. is obligated, upon demand by bnu, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the macau government. bnu is currently paid an annual fee by wynn macau, s.a. for the guarantee not to exceed 5.2 million patacas (approximately us$0.7 million). the government of macau may redeem the concession beginning on june 24, 2017, and in such event wynn macau, s.a. will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if wynn macau, s.a. fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. 14 table of contents if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. in addition, the government of macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case wynn macau, s.a. would be entitled to reasonable compensation. seasonality we may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. employees as of december 31, 2008, we had a total of approximately 20,600 employees (including approximately 7,200 in macau). during 2006, we entered into a collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and bartenders union local that covers approximately 6,300 employees at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. in may 2007, the dealers at wynn las vegas elected the transportation workers union to represent them. we are currently negotiating a contract with the transportation workers union. certain other unions may seek to organize the workers at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. unionization, pressure to unionize, or other forms of collective bargaining could increase our labor costs. we recruited a substantial number of new employees for the opening of wynn macau and the success of our operations will be affected by our success in retaining them. wynn macau competes with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in macau and expected in the near future for the limited qualified employees. we will have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff wynn macau. recent policies announced publicly by the macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we are coordinating with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our wynn macau operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. intellectual property our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name wynn . wynn resorts has filed applications with the u.s. patent and trademark office ( pto ), to register a variety of the wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts , wynn design and development , wynn las vegas , encore and wynn macau . some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname, wynn . as a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not registerable unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, wynn resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name in certain of the applications based upon mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. 15 table of contents we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, singapore, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states patent and trademark office and include wynn macau , wynn las vegas and encore . some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. we recognize that our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn , are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions. we have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world. on august 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with mr. wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the wynn name and mr. wynn persona in connection with our casino resorts. under a surname rights agreement, mr. wynn has granted us an exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide license to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the wynn name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. under a rights of publicity license, mr. wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until october 24, 2017. forward-looking statements the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. certain information included in this annual report on form 10-k contains statements that are forward-looking, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our business strategy and development activities as well as other capital spending, financing sources, the effects of regulation (including gaming and tax regulations), expectations concerning future operations, profitability and competition. any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, would, could, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, plan, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those set forth in item 1a (risk factors) as well as the following: adverse tourism trends reflecting current domestic and international economic conditions; volatility and weakness in world-wide credit and financial markets; general global macroeconomic conditions; further decreases in levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending; fluctuations in occupancy rates and average daily room rates; conditions precedent to funding under the agreements governing the disbursement of the proceeds of borrowings under our credit facilities; continued compliance with all provisions in our credit agreements; competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors in reaction to adverse economic conditions; completion of encore at wynn macau on time and within budget; 16 table of contents our intention to fund a substantial portion of the development and construction costs of encore at wynn macau with anticipated cash flows generated at wynn macau; doing business in foreign locations such as macau (including the risks associated with developing gaming regulatory frameworks and travel-related visa restrictions); restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland china to macau; new development and construction activities of competitors; our dependence on stephen a. wynn and existing management; our dependence on a limited number of properties and locations for all of our cash flow; leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates); changes in federal or state tax laws or the administration of such laws; changes in state law regarding water rights; changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions); approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations); the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease, such as avian flu, or the impact of a natural disaster may have on the travel and leisure industry; the consequences of the war in iraq and other military conflicts in the middle east and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks; and future legal proceedings. further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the sec. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information currently available to us. we undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2008, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $4.3 billion. in addition, our wynn las vegas credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness in connection with potential expansion plans under certain circumstances in the future and the wynn macau credit facilities permit us to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include rights to: repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral; initiate judicial foreclosure against us; and petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets. if we default under either our wynn las vegas or wynn macau credit facilities, such an event will cause a default under our wynn resorts credit agreement; we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas to service and amortize our wynn las vegas indebtedness and to pay final construction and retention payables for encore at wynn las vegas (approximately $202 million at december 31, 2008), which will reduce the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, and may give us greater exposure to the current adverse economic and industry conditions; we may experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels due to the adverse economic and industry conditions, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject to under our existing indebtedness. we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; we are dependent on certain amounts of cash flow from wynn macau to service the indebtedness associated with the wynn resorts term loan and wynn macau indebtedness, which reduces the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes at wynn macau; we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund construction costs of encore at wynn macau, satisfy working capital requirements including final construction and retention payables related to encore at wynn las vegas, or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; 18 table of contents while we do hedge a certain amount of our debt under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; and if we fail to pay our debts generally as they become due, unsecured creditors that we fail to pay may initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, subject to the requirements of the united states bankruptcy code, and such bankruptcy proceedings will delay or impact the repayment of our secured debt. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, we may, subject to certain limitations, be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain financial covenants and other covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization. if our operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants causing a default in our agreements. future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. 19 table of contents if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt (and, in the case of either wynn las vegas or wynn macau debt, with respect to the wynn resorts term loan) to be due and payable immediately. we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. if wynn macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness or otherwise become unable to make certain payments or dividends to us which we in turn could use to service the $1 billion wynn resorts term loan facility indebtedness (outstanding balance at december 31, 2008 of $375 million) or other indebtedness, our ability to service the indebtedness of wynn macau, wynn resorts or wynn las vegas, llc could be negatively impacted. our subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. in the event of a default by any of our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. risks related to our business continued weakness and further weakening in global economic conditions may adversely affect consumer and corporate spending and tourism trends, resulting in additional deterioration in our business. discretionary consumer spending has been adversely affected by the current economic crisis. worldwide, consumers are traveling less and spending less when they do travel. likewise, corporate spending on conventions and business development is being significantly curtailed as businesses cut their budgets. since our business model relies on significant expenditure on luxury and discretionary items, continuation or deepening of the crisis will adversely affect our operations. the current conditions in the world financial and credit markets adversely affects prospects of debt refinancing, availability of credit to us and to our customers and the profitability of our business. there was unprecedented deterioration in financial and credit markets worldwide in 2008. there can be no assurance that the decline is over and there can be no assurance that government response to these conditions will successfully address the fundamental weakness, restore consumer confidence or lead to improvement of or increase liquidity in the markets. customer demand for luxury amenities and leisure activities that we offer may be depressed or continue to decline. there have been and will continue to be large additions to the room supply in las vegas. there have been and will continue to be large additions to the room supply in las vegas. even after the global economy begins to recover, there may be excess supply particularly in the luxury segment. we are entirely dependent on three properties for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are entirely dependent upon wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau for all of our cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; 20 table of contents changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at our properties ; and the outbreak of an infectious disease such as the avian flu. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. competition for wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments are currently underway. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas may also compete with one another. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas also compete with other hotel/casino facilities in other cities, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries and other forms of gaming. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau, including encore at wynn macau, or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers, including high-rollers, away from wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. c ompetition for wynn macau . currently there are approximately 31 operating casinos in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government may grant additional gaming concessions beginning in 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. wynn macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. two large-scale casinos that are being developed currently in singapore will add further competition to the region. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in japan, or other asian countries are successful, wynn macau will face additional regional competition. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table game revenue at our properties is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. a continued downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more 21 table of contents credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. in addition, high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce gaming debts. recent dramatic changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amounts of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau was changed to permit casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent that gaming customers of wynn macau are visitors from other jurisdictions, wynn macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and wynn macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. wynn macau inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on its operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for gaming bad debt. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables from them. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by the factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, the current housing crisis, the current credit crisis, bank failures and the potential for additional bank failures, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, the current global economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. the current recession and economic crisis have resulted in a significant decline in the amount of tourism and spending in las vegas. in the fourth quarter, the occupancy rates across las vegas have declined by approximately 9.9%, room rates have declined by approximately 12.3% and las vegas strip gaming revenue has 22 table of contents declined approximately 21.7%, compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. we have also recently experienced increased levels of attrition and cancellation in the group business segment. if these trends continue, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. general. the operations of wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. we received all approvals for the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, and encore at wynn las vegas on december 22, 2008. we are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. we opened wynn macau on september 6, 2006, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt or securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. the suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to macau regulatory framework. wynn macau has developed certain operating procedures which are different from those used in united states casinos. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau, s.a. concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we would be subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us as a united states gaming operator, to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to taxation, both in the united states (at the federal, state and local level) and in macau. specific rates of taxation can be changed by legislative actions. increases in taxation could adversely affect our results. 23 table of contents terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. the strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities our properties offer. changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the united states and elsewhere, military conflicts in iraq and in the middle east, past outbreaks of infectious disease and tsunamis, among other things, have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. we cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us, directly or indirectly, in the future. an extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. in particular, because our business will rely heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations. in addition to terrorist activities, military conflicts, the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the avian flu or the impact of a natural disaster such as a tsunami or typhoon, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. negative changes in any factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. we currently have insurance coverage for terrorist acts with respect to wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau for up to $800 million per occurrence for losses that could result from these acts. however, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations. in addition, insurance premiums have increased and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. we may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. while we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. in the event that insurance premiums continue to increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverage we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. we have filed applications with the pto, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts , wynn design and development , wynn las vegas , encore and wynn macau . some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname, wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) cannot be registered unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. 24 table of contents even if we are able to obtain registration of the wynn-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states patent and trademark office and include wynn macau, encore, and wynn las vegas. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. we have recognized that our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn , are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions, some of which may pose a risk of unauthorized use or counterfeiting. we have retained counsel and will take all steps necessary to not only acquire but protect our intellectual property rights against such unauthorized use throughout the world. if a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. however, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. in 2008, we extended the term of mr. wynn employment agreement until october 2020. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with us. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. in addition, if mr. wynn is no longer either employed by us as chief executive officer or serving as chairman of the board, other than as a result of death or disability or other limited circumstances, it would constitute a change of control that would require wynn las vegas to offer to repay the first mortgage notes and would constitute an event of default under its credit facilities and wynn macau, s.a. credit facilities. our two largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction. mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc. each own approximately 21% of our currently outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to control all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. on november 13, 2006, the board of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. (each owning approximately 21% of our common stock as of december 31, 2008) from nevada acquisition of 25 table of contents controlling interest statutes. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of the bylaw amendment, either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. or their respective affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. in addition, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., together with baron asset fund, have entered into a stockholders agreement. under the stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors, a majority of which will be designated by mr. wynn, of which at least two will be independent directors, and the remaining members of which will be designated by aruze usa, inc. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, in november 2006, this agreement was amended to require the written consent of both mr. wynn and aruze usa, inc. prior to either party selling any shares of wynn resorts that it owns. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or applicable anti-money laundering regulation could have a negative impact on us. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), which generally prohibits u.s. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have a negative effect on our results of operations. 26 table of contents risks associated with wynn macau visitation to macau may decline due to continued economic disruptions in mainland china as well as increased restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china. a significant number of our gaming customers at wynn macau come from mainland china. a continued slow down in the economic growth of china could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our property or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, any travel restrictions imposed by china could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. during 2008 china implemented certain policies limiting visitation to macau and hong kong by mainland chinese residents. it is not known when, or if, these policies will be relaxed. the visa policy may be adjusted further in the future. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. we recruited a substantial number of new employees for the opening of wynn macau and the success of our operations will be affected by our success in retaining them. wynn macau competes with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in macau for the limited qualified employees. we will have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff wynn macau. further, recent policies announced by the macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we are coordinating with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our wynn macau operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. we depend upon games promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. increased competition may result in increased pressure on commission rates. a significant portion of our gaming revenue is generated by clientele of our games promoters. with the rise in gaming in macau, the competition for services provided by games promoters has increased. we anticipate that this competition will further intensify as additional casinos are expected to open in macau in the near future. while we believe that we currently maintain good relations with our existing games promoters, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain these relationships. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, or lose a significant number of our games promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our games promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. macau recently experienced a consolidation of games promoters. as a consequence, certain game promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. although there is some uncertainty as to whether such consolidation will become a trend in macau, any consolidation could result in negative changes in our operational agreements, including higher commissions, the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of our exclusive relationships with games promoters. while we have not had to adjust our compensation arrangements with games promoters thus far, we are aware of increased commission rates paid by other casino operators to games promoters in the macau market. if we need to increase our commission rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if our games promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. the reputations of the games promoters we deal with are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession and macau gaming laws. while we both endeavor, through contractual protections and otherwise, to ensure that our games promoters comply with the high standards of 27 table of contents probity and integrity under macau gaming laws, we cannot assure you that our games promoters will always comply with these high standards. in addition, if we enter into a business relationship with a games promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if any of our games promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the games promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. the financial resources of our games promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business at wynn macau. the global financial crisis may cause our games promoters to encounter decreased liquidity limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons and thereby decreasing gaming volume at wynn macau. further, credit already extended by our games promoters to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. this inability to grant credit and collect amounts due can negatively affect our games promoters operations at wynn macau, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. the development costs of encore at wynn macau are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. not all of the construction costs of encore at wynn macau are covered by a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, and we will be responsible for any cost overruns of these excluded items. we expect the total development costs of encore at wynn macau to be approximately $700 million. while we believe that the overall budget for the development costs of encore at wynn macau is reasonable, these development costs are estimates and actual development costs may be higher than expected. although we have certain contingencies set aside to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns and we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs. we have entered into a guaranteed maximum price construction contract for the design and construction of encore at wynn macau with leighton contractors (asia) limited, china state construction engineering (hong kong) limited and china construction engineering (macau) company limited, acting together as general contractor ( leighton/china state ). the contract covers approximately $347.8 million of the budgeted $700 million design and construction costs. we are responsible for cost overruns with respect to any budgeted components that are not part of the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. the financial resources of our contractor may be insufficient to fund cost overruns or liquidated damages for which it is responsible under the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. under the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations of the guaranteed maximum price construction contract, leighton/china state is responsible for all construction costs covered by the construction contract that exceed the approximately $347.8 million guaranteed maximum price contained in the contract. the parent companies of the contractor have provided a continuing guaranty by which they guarantee the contractor full performance under the construction contract until final payment under that contract. we cannot assure you that the contractor or its parent companies will have sufficient financial resources to fund any cost overruns or liquidated damages for which they are responsible under the guaranteed maximum price contract. furthermore, neither is contractually obligated to maintain the financial resources to cover cost overruns. if they do not have the resources to meet their obligations and we are unable to obtain funds from them in a timely manner, we may need to pay these excess costs in order to complete construction of wynn diamond suites. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. the success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau. in december 1999, after approximately 450 years of portuguese control, portugal returned macau to chinese administration. the people republic of china established macau as a special administrative region. as a result 28 table of contents of this change in control, macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. we cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm wynn macau business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of wynn macau by disrupting our ability to timely construct the project and by preventing or discouraging guests from traveling to macau. an outbreak of the avian influenza ( avian flu or bird flu ), severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ) or other contagious disease may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain asian countries and may adversely affect our results of operations. during 2004, large parts of asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian flu. in particular, guangdong province, prc, which is located across the zhuhai bridge from macau, has confirmed several cases of avian flu. currently, no fully effective avian flu vaccines have been developed and there can be no assurance that an effective vaccine can be discovered in time to protect against a potential avian flu pandemic. in the first half of 2003, certain countries in asia experienced an outbreak of sars, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demand for goods to plummet in the affected regions. there can be no assurance that an outbreak of avian flu, sars or other contagious disease or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks, will not seriously interrupt our gaming operations or visitation to macau, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the perception that an outbreak of avian flu, sars or other contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in asia. our investment in macau may be subject to potential taxation . our investment in macau is owned through a number of wholly-owned and partially-owned domestic and foreign entities. although we believe that transfers to these entities of the assets and stock of the wynn macau companies were accomplished on a tax-free basis, there is a risk that the internal revenue service may assert in the future that any appreciation in the transferred assets or stock was taxable at the time of such transfers. the macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession 29 table of contents agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our casino operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. we also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. as we develop wynn macau, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; 30 table of contents engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative discussions about market risk .) during the year ended december 31, 2008, we borrowed $879.5 million under the wynn las vegas revolver. we also have $20.1 million of outstanding letters of credit that reduce our availability under the wynn las vegas revolver. consequently, as of december 31, 2008, approximately $0.4 million remained available under the wynn las vegas revolver for future borrowings. for borrowings under the wynn las vegas revolver, we have historically elected eurodollar loans, which bear interest at the 1-month libor and currently include a margin of 1.625% on the outstanding balance. beginning june 30, 2009, the margin will fluctuate between a range of 1 to 1.75%, depending on our leverage ratio. in addition to interest, we also pay quarterly in arrears, an annual rate of 0.375% on the daily average of unborrowed availability. beginning june 30, 2009, the annual fee that we will be required to pay for unborrowed availability is based on our leverage ratio and will range from an annual rate of 0.25% to 0.50%. the $900 million wynn las vegas revolver will terminate and be payable in full on august 15, 2011. the wynn las vegas term loan will mature in two installments: $112.5 million will be payable on september 30, 2012 and the remaining $112.5 million will be payable on august 15, 2013. the wynn las vegas credit facilities are obligations of wynn las vegas, llc and are guaranteed by and secured by substantially all of the assets (except the corporate aircraft) of each of its subsidiaries (other than wynn completion guarantor, llc). the obligations of wynn las vegas, llc and the guarantors under the wynn las vegas credit facilities rank pari passu in right of payment with their existing and future senior indebtedness, including indebtedness with respect to the first mortgage notes and senior in right of payment to all of their existing and future subordinated indebtedness. on september 17, 2008, wynn las vegas entered into a third amendment to its amended and restated credit agreement dated as of august 15, 2006, as amended april 9, 2007 and as further amended october 31, 2007. this amendment, among other things, provides wynn las vegas with additional flexibility with respect to its financial covenants and related financial calculations. the wynn las vegas credit facilities contain customary covenants restricting our activities including, but not limited to: the ability to sell assets, make capital expenditures, enter into capital leases, make loans or other investments and incur additional indebtedness. in addition, we were required by the financial covenants to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio, as defined, not greater than 5.00 to 1 as of december 31, 2008, and consolidated interest coverage ratio, as defined, not less than 1.40 to 1. management believes that we were in compliance with all covenants at december 31, 2008. the consolidated leverage ratio is 5.00 to 1, 8.25 to 1, 7.75 to 1 and 7.50 to 1 for each of the reporting periods ending march 31, 2009, june 30, 2009, september 30, 49 table of contents 2009 and december 31, 2009, respectively. the consolidated interest coverage ratio is 1.35 to 1 for the reporting period ending march 31, 2008, and then increases to 1.75 to 1 for the reporting periods ending june 30, 2009 and september 30, 2009, and 2.00 to 1 for the reporting period ending december 31, 2009. wynn macau and encore at wynn macau on june 27, 2007, wynn resorts (macau) s.a., amended its credit facility, dated september 14, 2005 ( amended common terms agreement ), and entered into other related amendments and agreements with a syndicate of lenders. the amended common terms agreement and related agreements took effect on june 29, 2007 and expanded availability under wynn macau, s.a. existing senior bank facility from $764 million to $1.550 billion, in a combination of hong kong and u.s. dollars, including a $550 million equivalent fully-funded senior term loan facility (the wynn macau term loan ), and a $1 billion senior revolving credit facility (the wynn macau revolver ) (together the wynn macau credit facilities ). wynn macau, s.a. also has the ability to increase the total facilities by an additional $50 million pursuant to the terms and provisions of the amended common terms agreement. during the year ended december 31, 2008, we borrowed approximately $500 million under the wynn macau revolver which left remaining availability of $500 million. we borrowed this remaining availability of $500 million on february 4, 2009, which was added to our cash balances. the wynn macau term loan matures in june 2014, and the wynn macau revolver matures in june 2012. the principal amount of the term loans is required to be repaid in quarterly installments, commencing in september 2011. borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities bear interest at libor or hibor plus a margin of 1.75%. collateral for the wynn macau credit facilities consists of substantially all of the assets of wynn macau, s.a. certain affiliates that own interests in wynn macau, s.a., either directly or indirectly through other subsidiaries, have executed guarantees of the loans and pledged their interests in wynn macau, s.a. as additional security for repayment of the loans. the wynn macau credit facilities contain customary covenants restricting our activities including, but not limited to: the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the incurrence or creation of liens on any of its property, sales and leaseback transactions, the ability to dispose of assets, and make loans or other investments. in addition, we were required by the financial covenants to maintain a leverage ratio, as defined, not greater than 4.75 to 1 as of december 31, 2008, and interest coverage ratio, as defined, not less than 2.00 to 1. management believes that we were in compliance with all covenants at december 31, 2008. the leverage ratio increases to not greater than 5.00 to 1 for all reporting periods in 2009. off balance sheet arrangements we have not entered into any transactions with special purpose entities nor do we engage in any derivatives except for previously discussed interest rate swaps. we do not have any retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity. at december 31, 2008, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $20.1 million. 50 table of contents contractual obligation and commitments the following table summarizes our scheduled contractual commitments at december 31, 2008 (amounts in millions): payments due by period less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 4 to 5 years after 5 years total long-term debt obligations[1] $ 2.7 $ 1,336.0 $ 1,042.9 $ 1,921.1 $ 4,302.7 fixed interest payments 112.6 225.3 225.3 103.2 666.4 estimated variable interest payments [2] 86.9 118.7 40.4 5.8 251.8 operating leases 12.4 9.4 1.6 3.1 26.5 construction contracts and commitments 243.2 6.9 250.1 employment agreements 44.4 47.8 10.1 22.2 124.5 other [3] 89.9 78.3 33.5 136.7 338.4 total commitments $ 592.1 $ 1,822.4 $ 1,353.8 $ 2,192.1 $ 5,960.4 [1] on february 4, 2009 we borrowed the remaining availability of $500 million under the wynn macau revolver. the wynn macau revolver matures in june 2012. [2] amounts for all periods represent our estimated future interest payments on our debt facilities based upon amounts outstanding and libor or hibor rates at december 31, 2008. such rates are at historical lows as of december 31, 2008 and have been very volatile in recent months. actual rates will vary. [3] other includes open purchase orders, commitments for aircraft purchases, land concession and fixed gaming tax payments in macau and other contracts. as further discussed in item 8 financial statements , note 17 income taxes , of this report, we adopted the provisions of fin 48, on january 1, 2007. we had $120.8 million of unrecognized tax benefits as of december 31, 2008. due to the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions, it is not practicable to assign this liability to any particular year and therefore it is not included in the table above as of december 31, 2008. other liquidity matters wynn resorts is a holding company and, as a result, our ability to pay dividends is highly dependent on our ability to obtain funds and our subsidiaries ability to provide funds to us. restrictions imposed by our subsidiaries debt instruments significantly restrict the ability to pay dividends. specifically, wynn las vegas, llc and certain of its subsidiaries are restricted under the indenture governing the first mortgage notes from making certain restricted payments as defined in the indenture. these restricted payments include the payment of dividends or distributions to any direct or indirect holders of equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc. these restricted payments may not be made unless certain financial and non-financial criteria have been satisfied. the credit facilities of wynn las vegas, llc and wynn macau, s.a. contain similar restrictions; although the wynn macau, s.a. loan agreements permit distribution of the net proceeds of the subconcession sale and, provided certain conditions are met, earnings and loan proceeds. further, the $1 billion term loan places various restrictions on the ability to pay dividends. wynn las vegas, llc intends to fund its operations and capital requirements from operating cash flow and to the extent additional funds are required, with additional contributions from wynn resorts or additional indebtedness to be incurred by wynn las vegas, llc. we cannot assure you that wynn las vegas, llc will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future contributions from wynn resorts or the availability of additional indebtedness will be sufficient to enable us to service and repay wynn las vegas, llc indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. we expect that wynn macau will fund wynn macau, s.a. debt service obligations with existing cash and operating cash flow. however, we cannot assure you that such operating cash flows and existing cash will be sufficient to do so. we may seek to refinance all or a portion of 51 table of contents our indebtedness on or before maturity. continued volatility in the capital markets may affect our ability to refinance debt or access those markets for additional borrowings or may increase costs associated with borrowing funds. we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of the indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. new business developments or other unforeseen events may occur, resulting in the need to raise additional funds. we continue to explore opportunities to develop additional gaming or related businesses in las vegas, as well as other domestic and international markets. there can be no assurances regarding the business prospects with respect to any other opportunity. any other development would require us to obtain additional financing. we may decide to conduct any such development through wynn resorts or through subsidiaries separate from the las vegas or macau-related entities. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock, including its common stock, that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability and orders the redemption, or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by our board of directors. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note or both, as required by the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as we elect. any promissory note that we issue to an unsuitable person or its affiliate in exchange for its shares could increase our debt to equity ratio and would increase our leverage ratio. credit rating as of february 26, 2009, the company had a rating of bb with a negative outlook by standard &amp; poors and a rating of ba3 with a negative outlook by moody investors service. for future borrowings, any decrease in our corporate rating could result in an increase in borrowing costs. critical accounting policies and estimates management discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated financial statements. our consolidated financial statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. certain of our accounting policies require management apply significant judgment in defining the appropriate assumptions integral to financial estimates. on an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates, including those relating to the estimated lives of depreciable assets, asset impairment, allowances for doubtful accounts, accruals for customer loyalty rewards, self insurance, contingencies, litigation and other items. judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, industry trends and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. however, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, and therefore actual results could differ from our estimates. development, construction and property and equipment estimates during the construction and development of a resort, pre-opening or start-up costs are expensed when incurred. in connection with the construction and development of our properties, significant start-up costs are incurred and charged to pre-opening costs through their respective openings. once our properties open, expenses associated with the opening of the resorts are no longer charged as pre-opening costs. start-up costs relating to encore at wynn macau will be charged to pre-opening costs until it is completed and opened. during the construction and development stage, direct costs such as those incurred for the design and construction of our properties, including applicable portions of interest, are capitalized. accordingly, the recorded amounts of property and equipment increase significantly during construction periods. depreciation expense related to capitalized construction costs is recognized when the related assets are placed in service. upon the opening of our properties, we began recognizing depreciation expense on the resort fixed assets. 52 table of contents the remaining estimated useful lives of assets are periodically reviewed. our leasehold interest in land in macau under the land concession contract entered into in june 2004 is being amortized over 25 years, to the initial term of the concession contract, which currently terminates in june 2029. depreciation on a majority of the assets comprising wynn macau commenced in september of 2006, when wynn macau opened. the maximum useful life of assets at wynn macau is deemed to be the remaining life of the gaming concession, which currently expires in june 2022. consequently, depreciation related to wynn macau will generally be charged over shorter periods when compared to wynn las vegas. costs of repairs and maintenance are charged to expense when incurred. the cost and accumulated depreciation of property and equipment retired or otherwise disposed of are eliminated from the respective accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in operating income or loss. we also evaluate our property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment in accordance with sfas no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets. for assets to be disposed of, we recognize the asset at the lower of carrying value or fair market value less costs of disposal, as estimated based on comparable asset sales, solicited offers, or a discounted cash flow model. for assets to be held and used, we review for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. in reviewing for impairment, we compare the estimated future cash flows of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying value of the asset. if the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. if the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is recorded based on the fair value of the asset, typically measured using a discounted cash flow model. if an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. all recognized impairment losses, whether for assets to be disposed of or assets to be held and used, are recorded as operating expenses. allowance for estimated doubtful accounts receivable a substantial portion of our outstanding receivables relates to casino credit play. credit play, through the issuance of markers, represents a significant portion of the table games volume at wynn las vegas. while offered, the issuance of credit at wynn macau is less significant when compared to wynn las vegas. our goal is to maintain strict controls over the issuance of credit and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to pay their balances in a timely fashion. these collection efforts may include the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, personal contacts, the use of outside collection agencies, and litigation. markers issued at wynn las vegas are generally legally enforceable instruments in the united states, and united states assets of foreign customers may be used to satisfy judgments entered in the united states. the enforceability of markers and other forms of credit related to gaming debt outside of the united states varies from country to country. some foreign countries do not recognize the enforceability of gaming related debt, or make enforcement burdensome. we closely consider the likelihood and difficulty of enforceability, among other factors, when issuing credit to customers who are not residents of the united states. in addition to our internal credit and collection departments, located in both las vegas and macau, we have a network of legal, accounting and collection professionals to assist us in our determinations regarding enforceability and our overall collection efforts. as of december 31, 2008 and december 31, 2007, approximately 78% and 65% of our casino accounts receivable were owed by customers from foreign countries, primarily in asia. in addition to enforceability issues, the collectibility of markers given by foreign customers is affected by a number of factors including changes in currency exchange rates and economic conditions in the customers home countries. we regularly evaluate our reserve for bad debts based on a specific review of customer accounts as well as management prior experience with collection trends in the casino industry and current economic and business conditions. 53 table of contents the following table presents key statistics related to our casino accounts receivable (amounts in thousands): december 31, 2008 december 31, 2007 casino accounts receivable $ 200,115 $ 216,166 allowance for doubtful casino accounts receivable 101,880 $ 65,647 allowance as a percentage of casino accounts receivable 50.9 % 30.4 % percentage of casino accounts receivable outstanding over 180 days 30.7 % 19.0 % the increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of casino accounts receivable is due to a change in our reserve estimates effective september 2008, as a result of the current global economic uncertainty. our reserve for doubtful casino accounts receivable is based on our estimates of amounts collectible and depends on the risk assessments and judgments by our employees regarding realizability, the state of the economy and our credit policy. our reserve methodology is applied similarly to credit extended at wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau. as of december 31, 2008 and december 31, 2007, approximately 29% and 25% respectively, of our outstanding casino account receivable balance originated at wynn macau. as our customer payment experience evolves, we will continue to refine our estimated reserve for bad debts. accordingly, the associated provision for doubtful accounts expense may fluctuate. because individual customer account balances can be significant, the reserve and the provision can change significantly between periods, as we become aware of additional information about a customer or changes in a region economy or legal system. derivative financial instruments we seek to manage our market risk, including interest rate risk associated with variable rate borrowings, through balancing fixed-rate and variable-rate borrowings and the use of derivative financial instruments. we account for derivative financial instruments in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended. derivative financial instruments are recognized as assets or liabilities, with changes in fair value affecting net income or comprehensive income, as applicable. as of december 31, 2008, changes in the swap fair values are being recorded in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. share-based compensation sfas no. 123(r) establishes standards for the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods and services or incurs a liability in exchange for goods and services that are based on the fair value of the entity equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. it requires an entity to measure the costs of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award and recognize that cost over the service period. we adopted this statement on january 1, 2006 under the modified prospective method and use the black-scholes valuation model to value the equity instruments issued. the black-scholes valuation model uses assumptions of expected volatility, risk-free interest rates, the expected term of options granted, and expected rates of dividends. management determines these assumptions by reviewing current market rates, making industry comparisons and reviewing conditions relevant to our company. in march 2005, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin ( sab ) no. 107, share-based payment to provide interpretive guidance on sfas no. 123(r) valuation methods, assumptions used in valuation models, and the interaction of sfas no. 123(r) with existing sec guidance. sab no. 107 also requires the classification of stock compensation expense in the same financial statement line items as cash compensation, and therefore impacts our departmental expenses (and related operating margins), pre-opening costs and construction in progress for our development projects, and our general and administrative expenses (including corporate expenses). 54 table of contents significant judgmental accruals we estimate liabilities for certain self-insurance, customer loyalty program reward redemptions, contingencies, claims and litigation and other items, as appropriate. management determines the adequacy of these estimates by reviewing the expected trends and from industry experience and adjusts the assumptions utilized as it believes necessary. income taxes we are subject to income taxes in the united states and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate. we account for income taxes in accordance with sfas no. 109, accounting for income taxes . sfas no. 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets, net of applicable reserves, and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. the effect of a change in tax rates on the income tax provision and deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in the results of operations in the period that includes the enactment date. sfas no. 109 requires recognition of a future tax benefit to the extent that realization of such benefit is more likely than not. otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied. during our development stage, we accumulated significant net operating losses, which generated significant deferred tax assets. because of our limited operating history, we previously fully reserved these net deferred tax assets. on september 11, 2006, we recorded a gain of $899.4 million on the sale of the subconcession right. accordingly we determined that a substantial portion of our net deferred tax assets had become more likely than not realizable as defined by sfas no. 109. our income tax returns are subject to examination by the internal revenue service ( irs ) and other tax authorities in the locations where we operate. we assess potentially unfavorable outcomes of such examinations based on the criteria of financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) interpretation no. 48 ( fin 48 ) accounting for uncertainty in income taxes which we adopted on january 1, 2007. the interpretation prescribes a minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. as a result of the adoption of fin 48, our income tax recognition policy related to uncertain income tax positions is no longer covered by sfas no. 5. fin 48 applies to all tax positions related to income taxes subject to sfas no. 109. fin 48 utilizes a two-step approach for evaluating tax positions. recognition (step i) occurs when we conclude that a tax position, based on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. measurement (step ii) is only addressed if the position is deemed to be more likely than not to be sustained. under step ii, the tax benefit is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. fin 48 use of the term more likely than not is consistent with how that term is used in sfas no. 109 (i.e. likelihood of occurrence is greater than 50%). the tax positions failing to qualify for initial recognition are to be recognized in the first subsequent interim period that they meet the more likely than not standard. if it is subsequently determined that a previously recognized tax position no longer meets the more likely than not standard, the tax position must be derecognized. fin 48 specifically prohibits the use of a valuation allowance as a substitute for derecognition of tax positions. as applicable, we will recognize accrued penalties and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes. during the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recognized no amounts for interest or penalties. effective september 6, 2006, we received a 5-year exemption from macau 12% complementary tax on casino gaming profits. accordingly, during 2008 we were exempted from the payment of approximately $27.7 55 table of contents million in such taxes. wynn macau non-gaming profits remain subject to the macau complementary tax and wynn macau casino winnings remain subject to the macau special gaming tax and other levies in accordance with its concession agreement. recently issued accounting standards in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, fair value measurements . this statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. accordingly, this statement does not require any new fair value measurements. in february 2008, the fasb issued fasb staff position fas 157-2, which defers the effective date of sfas 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the entity financial statements on a recurring basis to fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years. we partially adopted the provisions of sfas 157 effective january 1, 2008 and expect to adopt the remaining provisions of sfas 157 on january 1, 2009. the partial adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities including an amendment of fasb statement no. 115. sfas no. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses related to these financial instruments reported in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. sfas no. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. the adoption of sfas no. 159 on january 1, 2008, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 141 (revised 2007), business combinations. sfas no. 141 (revised) establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. the revision is intended to simplify existing guidance and converge rulemaking under u.s. gaap with international accounting rules. this statement applies prospectively to business combinations where the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after december 15, 2008. the adoption of sfas no. 141 (revised) is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, noncontrolling interest in consolidated financial statements, an amendment of arb no. 51. this statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. it also clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. sfas no. 160 changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented by requiring consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amount attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interests. the statement also establishes reporting requirements that provide sufficient disclosure that clearly identify and distinguish between the interest of the parent and those of the noncontrolling owners. this statement is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after december 15, 2008. the adoption of sfas no. 160 is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in march 2008, the fasb issued sfas no. 161, disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities, an amendment of sfas no. 133 . sfas no. 161 is intended to improve financial reporting about derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced disclosures to enable investors to better understand their effects on an entity financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. this statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2008. sfas no. 161 is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 56 table of contents in may 2008, the fasb issued fasb staff position apb 14-1, accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) (the fsp ). the fsp requires the issuer of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion to separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. the fsp is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years and does not permit earlier application. however, the transition guidance requires retrospective application to all periods presented and does not grandfather existing instruments. we are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of the fsp will have on its consolidated financial statements. in june 2008, the fasb issued fsp eitf 03-6-1, determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities. this fsp addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share ( eps ) under the two-class method described in paragraphs 60 and 61 of fasb statement no. 128, earnings per share. the fsp will be effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after december 15, 2008. all prior period eps data presented shall be adjusted retrospectively to conform to the provisions of this fsp. we are currently evaluating the impact of this fsp, but do not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. in october 2008, the fasb issued fasb staff position no. fas 157-3, determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that asset is not active (fsp 157-3 or the fsp). fsp 157-3 clarifies the application of sfas no. 157, fair value measurement (statement 157), in a market that is not active. the fsp amends statement 157 to include an example that illustrates key considerations when applying the principles in statement 157 to financial assets when the market for these instruments is not active. 57 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2008 of our expected long-term indebtedness. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2008, such rates were at historic lows and have been very volatile in recent months. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2008 of 0.436% and 0.299%, respectively were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents. as of december 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ 1,700.0 $ 1,700.0 average interest rate 6.6 % 6.6 % variable rate $ 2.7 $ 378.6 $ 957.4 $ 785.3 $ 257.7 $ 221.0 $ 2,602.7 average interest rate 1.6 % 2.7 % 2.1 % 2.1 % 2.2 % 2.1 % 2.2 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we account for these swaps under sfas no. 133 and its related interpretations. wynn resorts on february 1, 2008, we entered into an interest rate swap to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on all of the borrowings under the $1 billion term loan, which bears interest at libor plus 2.25%. pursuant to the terms of this interest rate swap, we paid a fixed rate of 2.836% on the $1 billion notional amount and received payments based on libor. this swap fixed the interest rate at approximately 5.09%. on december 8, 2008, we modified the terms of this swap so that the current notional amount is $375 million, which matches the current debt outstanding. pursuant to the amendment, we now pay a fixed rate of 3.95% which fixes the interest rate at approximately 6.2%. changes in the fair value of this interest rate swap have and will continue to be recorded as an increase/decrease in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income as the swap does not qualify for hedge accounting. this swap matures in june 2010. wynn las vegas on december 31, 2008, our interest rate swap at wynn las vegas matured. this interest rate swap arrangement was intended to hedge the underlying interest rate risk on a total of $200 million of borrowings under the wynn las vegas term loan, which bears interest at libor plus 1.875%. under this interest rate swap 58 table of contents arrangement, we received payments at a variable rate of libor and paid a fixed rate of 3.793% on the $200 million notional amount. although this interest rate swap was highly effective economically in fixing the interest rate on borrowings under the wynn las vegas term loan at approximately 5.7%, changes in the fair value of our interest rate swap for each reporting period was recorded as an increase/decrease in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swap did not qualify for hedge accounting. wynn macau as of december 31, 2008, we had two interest rate swaps intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau term loan. under the first swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 3.632% on u.s. dollar borrowings of $153.8 million incurred under the wynn macau term loan in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. under the second swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 3.39% on hong kong dollar borrowings of approximately hk $991.6 million (approximately u.s. $127.9 million) incurred under the wynn macau term loan in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. the term of both swap agreements is from august 2008 through august 2011. these interest rate swaps fix the interest rates on the current u.s. dollar and hong kong dollar borrowings under the wynn macau term loan at approximately 5.382% and 5.14%, respectively. however, changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase/decrease in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. summary of historical fair values the following table presents the historical asset or liability fair values as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, of our interest rate swap arrangements (amounts in thousands): wynn resorts wynn las vegas wynn macau net total interest rate swaps asset / (liability) fair value at: december 31, 2008 $ (15,334 ) $ $ (12,539 ) $ (27,873 ) december 31, 2007 $ $ 416 $ (3,095 ) $ (2,679 ) the fair value approximates the amount we would receive (pay) if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2008 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is the company reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ $ 375 $ 281.7 $ $ $ $ 656.7 average pay rate 3.95 % 3.52 % 3.77 % average receive rate 1.06 % 1.59 % 1.29 % 59 table of contents we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2008, approximately 55% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2008, an assumed 1% change in variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $19.5 million. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. to date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 18 item 1b unresolved staff comments 32 item 2. properties 32 item 3. legal proceedings 33 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders 33 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 34 item 6. selected financial data 36 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 37 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 63 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 102 item 9a. controls and procedures 102 item 9b. other information 102 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 103 item 11. executive compensation 103 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 103 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 103 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 103 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 104 signatures 121 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview wynn resorts, limited, a nevada corporation, was formed in june 2002, is led by chairman and chief executive officer, stephen a. wynn, and is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. we own and operate two destination casino resorts: wynn las vegas, on the strip in las vegas, nevada, encore at wynn las vegas located adjacent to wynn las vegas, and wynn macau, located in the macau special administrative region of the people republic of china ( macau ). we are also currently constructing encore at wynn macau, an expansion of our wynn macau resort. we present our results based on the following two segments: wynn las vegas (which includes encore at wynn las vegas) and wynn macau. for more information on the financial results for our segments, see item 8 financial statements, note 17 segment information. due to a number of factors, including disruptions in global economies, stagnant credit markets, and reduced consumer spending, 2009 was a difficult year for the casino resort business, particularly for u.s. operations. auto traffic into las vegas, airline capacity and air travel to mccarran international airport have declined, resulting in lower casino volumes and a reduced demand for hotel rooms. the current adverse global economic conditions will likely continue to cause us to experience lower than historical hotel occupancy rates, room rates, casino volumes and profitability in las vegas. unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to wynn resorts, the company, we, us or our, or similar terms, refer to wynn resorts, limited and its consolidated subsidiaries. wynn resorts files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments of such reports with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). any document wynn resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e. washington, d.c. 20549 or at the sec internet site address at http://www.sec.gov . information related to the operation of the sec public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com , wynn resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party sec filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. information found on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. our resorts wynn las vegas wynn las vegas opened on april 28, 2005. we believe that the resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service with 2,716 rooms and suites, including 36 fairway villas and 6 private-entry villas for our premium guests. in 2010, for the fourth year in a row, the tower suites at wynn las vegas has received both the forbes five-star and aaa five-diamond distinctions. the spa at wynn las vegas earned five-star recognition from forbes for the second year in a row. the spa at wynn las vegas and the spa at encore are the only spas in las vegas to be recognized with the forbes five-star award. the approximately 110,000 square foot casino features approximately 130 table games, a baccarat salon, private vip gaming rooms, a poker room, approximately 1,920 slot machines, and a race and sports book. the resort 22 food and beverage outlets feature six fine dining restaurants, including restaurants helmed by award winning chefs. wynn las vegas also offers two nightclubs, a spa and salon, a ferrari and maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 223,000 square feet of meeting space and an approximately 74,000 square foot retail promenade featuring boutiques from alexander mcqueen, brioni, cartier, chanel, dior, graff, louis vuitton, manolo blahnik, oscar de la renta and vertu. wynn las vegas also has a showroom which features le r&ecirc;ve, a water-based theatrical production. we believe that the unique experience of wynn las vegas drives the significant visitation experienced since opening. 3 table of contents encore at wynn las vegas encore at wynn las vegas opened on december 22, 2008. this resort is located immediately adjacent to and is connected with wynn las vegas and features a 2,034 all-suite hotel as well as an approximately 76,000 square foot casino with approximately 90 table games, a baccarat salon, private vip gaming rooms, approximately 790 slot machines and a sports book. in its first full year of operations, the encore tower suites has received both the forbes five star and aaa five diamond awards. the spa at encore also earned five-star recognition from forbes. the resort 12 food and beverage outlets include five restaurants, many of which feature award winning chefs. encore at wynn las vegas also offers a night club, a spa and salon, approximately 60,000 square feet of meeting space and approximately 27,000 square feet of upscale retail outlets featuring boutiques from hermes, chanel and others. the encore theater featured several headliner entertainment acts during 2009, including the return of garth brooks. our agreement with garth brooks provides for the performance of 300 shows in the encore theater before 2014, but is cancelable by either party under certain conditions. construction is currently underway to replace encore porte-cochere on las vegas boulevard with the encore beach club that will feature pools, food and beverage, and nightlife offerings. the total project budget for the encore beach club is approximately $68 million. the beach club is expected to open on schedule in the second quarter of 2010. wynn macau wynn macau opened on september 6, 2006. wynn macau currently features approximately 600 hotel rooms and suites, approximately 390 table games, 1,200 slot machines and a poker room in approximately 222,000 square feet of casino gaming space, six restaurants, a spa and salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 48,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from bvlgari, chanel, dior, dunhill, fendi, ferrari, giorgio armani, gucci, hermes, hugo boss, louis vuitton, miu miu, piaget, prada, rolex, tiffany, van cleef &amp; arpels, versace, vertu, zegna and others. for 2010, wynn macau was one of two hotels in macau to receive the forbes five-star distinction. the spa at wynn macau also received the forbes five-star award. wynn macau includes a show in its rotunda featuring a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling and interchangeable gold prosperity tree and dragon of fortune attractions. see item 7 of part ii, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for information about our net revenues. construction and development encore at wynn macau we are completing construction of encore at wynn macau, a further expansion of wynn macau. encore at wynn macau will add a fully-integrated resort hotel to wynn macau, planned to include approximately 410 luxury suites and four villas along with restaurants, additional retail space and additional gaming space. we expect encore at wynn macau to open in april 2010. we expect total costs to be approximately $600 million. as of december 31, 2009, we had incurred approximately $454.9 million related to the development and construction of encore at wynn macau. general in the ordinary course of our business, in response to market developments and customer preferences, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to our properties. we have incurred and will continue to incur these capital expenditures at wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau. 4 table of contents other development opportunities on february 24, 2010, we announced we entered into a letter of intent with philadelphia entertainment and development partners, lp (pedp), providing that one of our affiliates will become the manager and managing general partner in the pdep casino project slated for the philadelphia waterfront. the agreement is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions including the approval of the pennsylvania gaming board. approximately 142 acres of land adjacent to wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas is currently improved with a golf course. while we may develop this property in the future, due to the current economic environment and certain restrictions in our credit facilities, we have no immediate plans to do so. we have applied to the government of macau for a land concession for approximately 52 acres on cotai and are awaiting final governmental approval of this concession. no construction timeline or budget has yet been developed. we continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in las vegas, other markets in the united states, and worldwide. our strategy we believe that steve wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. mr. wynn involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. we integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to a variety of customers. our properties were designed and built to provide a premium experience. wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau are positioned as full-service luxury resorts and casinos in the leisure, convention and tour and travel industries. we market these resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. we also create general market awareness for our properties through various media channels, including television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards. mr. wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. the senior executive team has an average of approximately 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. we also have an approximately 70-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines. market and competition las vegas las vegas is the largest gaming market in the united states. the casino/hotel industry in las vegas is highly competitive and, prior to the recent economic conditions and interruption in projects under development, had undergone a period of exceptional growth, particularly with the addition of projects targeting the premium customer. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas are located on the las vegas strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos on the strip, those in downtown las vegas, as well as a large number of hotels in and near las vegas. many competing properties, such as the bellagio, caesars palace, luxor hotel and casino, mandalay bay resort &amp; casino, the mirage, new york-new york hotel and casino, paris las vegas, treasure island, the venetian, the palazzo, the recently opened city center and others, draw a significant number of visitors and directly compete with our operations. we seek to differentiate wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas from other major las vegas resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury. 5 table of contents wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas will face additional competition from new multi-billion dollar resorts including, without limitation, city center which, when fully opened, will add approximately 6,000 rooms. cosmopolitan, a $3.9 billion condo/hotel/casino resort located on the las vegas strip, and the remaining phases of city center are expected to open in 2010. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in nevada and atlantic city, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands and elsewhere in the world, as well as state lotteries and other forms of gaming. the proliferation of native american gaming in california could have a negative impact on our operations. in addition, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. new or renovated casinos in asia, including our properties in macau, could draw asian gaming customers away from las vegas. during 2009, the current economic environment in the gaming and hotel markets in las vegas continued to experience declines including, among other things, a 3.0% decrease in visitation to 36.4 million visitors, a 9.4% decrease in las vegas strip gaming revenue and a 22% decrease in average daily room rates, all as compared to the year ended december 2008. we, along with our competitors, have responded to the deterioration in consumer spending by aggressively marketing and pricing our las vegas offerings. macau macau, which was a portuguese colony for approximately 450 years, was transferred from portuguese to chinese political control in december 1999. macau is governed as a special administrative region of china and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and less than one hour away via ferry from, hong kong. macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 40 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland china, and two neighboring islands, taipa and coloane, connected by bridges. we believe that macau is located in one of the world largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. according to macau statistical information, casinos in macau generated approximately $15 billion in gaming revenue in 2009, an approximately 10% increase over the approximately $13.6 billion generated in 2008, making macau the largest gaming market in the world. macau gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. the macau market has experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last few years. as of december 31, 2009, there were approximately 19,200 hotel rooms and approximately 4,770 table games in macau, compared to approximately 12,978 hotel rooms and approximately 2,760 table games as of december 31, 2006. gaming customers traveling to macau have typically come from nearby destinations in asia including hong kong, mainland china, taiwan, south korea and japan. according to the macau statistics and census service monthly bulletin of statistics, approximately 87% of the tourists who visited macau in 2009 came from mainland china, hong kong and taiwan. macau completed construction of an international airport in 1995, which accommodates large commercial aircraft and provides direct air service to major cities in asia, including beijing, shanghai, jakarta, ho chi minh city, taipei, manila, singapore and bangkok. travel to macau by citizens of mainland china requires a visa. government officials have exercised their authority to adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future. prior to 2002, gaming in macau was permitted as a government-sanctioned monopoly concession awarded to a single concessionaire. however, the government of macau liberalized the gaming industry in 2002 by granting concessions to operate casinos to three concessionaires (including wynn macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of macau, to each grant one sub-concession to other gaming operators. there is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. currently, there are 33 operating casinos in macau. in 2002, the other two concessions were granted to sociedade de jogos de macau ( sjm ) and galaxy entertainment group limited ( galaxy ). sjm, which is controlled by stanley ho, operates 20 of the 33 existing 6 table of contents casinos, including two of the larger casinos in macau: the hotel lisboa and the grand lisboa. in september 2009, sjm opened le royal arc casino/hotel which is adjacent to wynn macau. in december 2009, sjm opened the casino oceanus which is adjacent to the macau ferry terminal. in addition, an affiliate of sjm owns one of two water ferry services and the helicopter shuttle service that links macau to hong kong. galaxy was also awarded a casino concession in june 2002. galaxy is a hong kong stock exchange listed company. galaxy opened the waldo hotel/casino on the macau peninsula in 2004, the grand waldo cotai in the summer of 2006, and galaxy star world hotel casino immediately adjacent to wynn macau in october 2006. in addition, galaxy is currently constructing a resort on cotai, which is expected to open in 2011. las vegas sands corp., the owner and operator of the venetian and the palazzo resorts in las vegas and a former partner of galaxy, entered into a sub-concession agreement with galaxy in 2002 which allows it to independently develop and operate casinos in macau. the sands macao opened in 2004. in august 2007, las vegas sands corp. opened the venetian macao resort hotel, the largest casino resort in macau. in august 2008, las vegas sands corp. opened the four seasons hotel macau adjacent to the venetian macao. in addition, las vegas sands corp. has proposed a masterplan for other large developments in cotai that would include additional hotel properties as well as serviced apartment units and additional retail and related space. in late 2009, las vegas sands completed the initial public offering of sands china, ltd. on the hong kong stock exchange. las vegas sands corp. has reported that a portion of the proceeds from that offering will be used to restart certain postponed developments in cotai. a joint venture consisting of melco, a hong kong stock exchange-listed company, and crown, ltd., an australian company, is currently operating the altira, which opened in may 2007, and the city of dreams, a large resort in cotai, which opened in june 2009. this joint venture operates its properties under a subconcession purchased from us in 2006. in december 2007, a joint venture of mgm mirage and pansy ho chiu-king (stanley ho daughter) opened the mgm grand macau, a resort on the macau peninsula adjacent to wynn macau. the mgm grand macau is operated pursuant to a subconcession granted to the joint venture by sjm. our casino concession agreement allows the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos commencing april 1, 2009. if the government of macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, wynn macau will face increased competition from casino operators in macau. wynn macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. in addition, one large-scale casino recently opened in singapore and another is expected to open later in 2010, which will add further competition to the region. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming and other casinos throughout asia. geographic data geographic data are reported in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in item 7 management discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations. regulation and licensing the gaming industry is highly regulated. gaming registrations, licenses and approvals, once obtained, can be suspended or revoked for a variety of reasons. we cannot assure you that we will obtain all required registrations, licenses and approvals on a timely basis or at all, or that, once obtained, the registrations, findings of suitability, licenses and approvals will not be suspended, conditioned, limited or revoked. if we are ever prohibited from operating one of our gaming facilities, we would, to the extent permitted by law, seek to recover our investment by selling the property affected, but we cannot assure you that we could recover full value. 7 table of contents nevada introduction. the ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the state of nevada are subject to the nevada gaming control act and the regulations made under the act, as well as to various local ordinances. wynn las vegas operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the nevada gaming commission, the nevada state gaming control board and the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which we refer to herein collectively as the nevada gaming authorities. policy concerns of gaming laws. the laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the nevada gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. such public policy concerns include, among other things: preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the nevada gaming authorities; preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our las vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our subsidiary, wynn las vegas, llc, as the owner and operator of wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas, has been approved by the nevada gaming authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. these gaming licenses are not transferable. company registration requirements. wynn resorts was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn resorts holdings, llc ( wynn resorts holdings ), a wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the nevada gaming control act. wynn resorts holdings was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. in addition to being licensed, wynn las vegas, llc, as an issuer of first mortgage notes registered with the sec, also qualified as a registered company. wynn las vegas capital corp., a co-issuer of the first mortgage notes, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source. periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the nevada gaming commission and provide any other information that the nevada gaming commission may require. substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the nevada gaming commission. individual licensing requirements. no person may become a stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the nevada gaming authorities. the nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. certain of our officers, directors and key 8 table of contents employees have been or may be required to file applications with the nevada gaming authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the nevada gaming authorities. all applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. however, the nevada gaming authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason, which they deem appropriate. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the nevada gaming authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. if the nevada gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the nevada gaming commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in nevada. redemption of securities owned by an unsuitable person. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. if wynn resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. if the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the nasdaq global select market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and asked prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. wynn resorts right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. consequences of violating gaming laws. if the nevada gaming commission determines that we have violated the nevada gaming control act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the nevada gaming control act, or of the regulations of the nevada gaming commission, at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. further, the nevada gaming commission could appoint a supervisor to operate wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the state of nevada. limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. requirements for voting or nonvoting securities holders. regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of wynn resorts voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of wynn resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. the applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. 9 table of contents the nevada gaming control act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the nevada gaming commission. the nevada gaming control act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company voting securities to apply to the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board mails the written notice requiring such filing. however, an institutional investor, as defined in the nevada gaming control act, which beneficially owns more than 10% but not more than 11% of a registered company voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by the registered company may not be required to file such an application. further, an institutional investor which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company voting securities may apply to the nevada gaming commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by the registered company. an institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the nevada gaming commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company voting securities for investment purposes only. activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and, other activities that the nevada gaming commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. the articles of incorporation of wynn resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions. wynn resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in nevada which may be examined by the nevada gaming authorities at any time. if any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the nevada gaming authorities. a failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. we are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of wynn resorts voting securities. the nevada gaming commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the nevada gaming control act. the certificates representing shares of wynn resorts common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in wynn resorts articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws. consequences of being found unsuitable. any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the nevada gaming commission or by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. the same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the nevada gaming commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. we will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; 10 table of contents allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to wynn resorts; pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or, fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. gaming laws relating to debt securities ownership. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the nevada gaming commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the nevada gaming control act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission, it: pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or, makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. approval of public offerings. we may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. on march 19, 2009, the nevada gaming commission granted us and wynn las vegas, llc prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of two years (the shelf approval ). the shelf approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board. the shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the nevada gaming authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. any representation to the contrary is unlawful. approval of changes in control. a registered company must obtain the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company. entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the nevada state gaming control board and nevada gaming commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. the nevada gaming commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. approval of defensive tactics. the nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. the nevada gaming commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon nevada gaming industry and to further nevada policy in order to: assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies; 11 table of contents preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and, promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. approvals may be required from the nevada gaming commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. the nevada gaming control act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. fees and taxes. license fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the state of nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries respective operations are conducted. depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or, the number of table games operated. a live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished. foreign gaming investigations. any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, licensees ), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of nevada, is required to deposit with the nevada state gaming control board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the nevada state gaming control board of the licensee or registrant participation in such foreign gaming. the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the nevada gaming control act. a licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if it: knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of nevada; engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the state of nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. the conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which has granted wynn las vegas, llc licenses for such purposes. in addition to approving wynn las vegas, llc the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. clark county gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. the county has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. 12 table of contents macau general. as a casino concessionaire, wynn macau, s.a. is subject to the regulatory control of the government of macau. the government has adopted laws and administrative regulations governing the operation of casinos in macau. only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the macau government and, to date, each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the macau government which, together with the law and administrative regulations, forms the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. under the law and administrative regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. the same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the macau government. concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the macau government and are ineffective without government approval. each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. the appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the macau government. all contracts placing the management of a concessionaire casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the macau government. concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. concessionaires are obligated to withhold, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. such withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. a games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. for a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. the term of a games promoters license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. the dicj has recently implemented certain instructions, which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to and by games promoters. such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on games promoters. under macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. these contractors are subject to approval of the macau government. changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government 13 table of contents approval. to conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the macau government. macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters for the following year, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. the macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity. the government of macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. during any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. the government of macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. the government of macau also may terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract. concession agreement. the concession agreement between wynn macau s.a. and the macau government required wynn macau, s.a. to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of december 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately us$500 million) in macau-related projects by june 2009. this obligation was satisfied upon the opening of wynn macau in 2006. wynn macau, s.a. was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million pataca (approximately us$87 million) bank guarantee from banco national ultramarino, s.a. ( bnu ) that was effective until march 31, 2007. the amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million patacas (approximately us$37 million) for the period from april 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. this guarantee, which is for the benefit of the macau government, assures wynn macau, s.a. performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. wynn macau, s.a. is obligated, upon demand by bnu, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the macau government. bnu is currently paid an annual fee by wynn macau, s.a. for the guarantee not to exceed 5.2 million patacas (approximately us$0.7 million). the government of macau may redeem the concession beginning on june 24, 2017, and in such event wynn macau, s.a. will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if wynn macau, s.a. fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; 14 table of contents systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. in addition, the government of macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case wynn macau, s.a. would be entitled to reasonable compensation. seasonality we may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. employees as of december 31, 2009, we had a total of approximately 18,900 employees (including approximately 6,400 in macau). during 2006, we entered into a collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and bartenders union local that covers approximately 5,800 employees at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. in may 2007, the dealers at wynn las vegas elected the transportation workers union to represent them. contract negotiations have concluded with the only remaining item being the duration of the contract. the negotiated agreement is subject to ratification by the bargaining unit and the transportation workers union has advised the company that they have recommended ratification to the affected employees. certain other unions may seek to organize the workers at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. unionization, pressure to unionize or other forms of collective bargaining could increase our labor costs. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. wynn macau competes with the large number of casino resort developments currently underway in macau for the limited qualified employees. we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff wynn macau and recent policies announced publicly by the macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we are coordinating with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our wynn macau operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. intellectual property our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name wynn. wynn resorts has filed applications with the u.s. patent and trademark office ( pto ), to register a variety of the wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. 15 table of contents a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname, wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not registerable unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, wynn resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name in certain of the applications based upon mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, singapore, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states patent and trademark office and include wynn macau, wynn las vegas and encore. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. we recognize that our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions. we have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world. on august 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with mr. wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the wynn name and mr. wynn persona in connection with our casino resorts. under a surname rights agreement, mr. wynn has granted us an exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide license to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating the wynn name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. under a rights of publicity license, mr. wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until october 24, 2017. forward-looking statements the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. certain information included in this annual report on form 10-k contains statements that are forward-looking, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our business strategy and development activities as well as other capital spending, financing sources, the effects of regulation (including gaming and tax regulations), expectations concerning future operations, profitability and competition. any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, would, could, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, plan, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those set forth in item 1a (risk factors) as well as the following: adverse tourism and consumer spending trends reflecting current domestic and international economic conditions; volatility and weakness in world-wide credit and financial markets; 16 table of contents general global macroeconomic conditions; further decreases in levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending; fluctuations in occupancy rates and average daily room rates; conditions precedent to funding under the agreements governing the disbursement of the proceeds of borrowings under our credit facilities; continued compliance with all provisions in our credit agreements; competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors in reaction to adverse economic conditions; completion of encore at wynn macau on time and within budget; our intention to fund a substantial portion of the development and construction costs of encore at wynn macau with anticipated cash flows generated at wynn macau; doing business in foreign locations such as macau (including the risks associated with developing gaming regulatory frameworks); restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland china to macau; new development and construction activities of competitors; our dependence on stephen a. wynn and existing management; our dependence on a limited number of properties and locations for all of our cash flow; leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates); changes in federal or state tax laws or the administration of such laws; changes in state law regarding water rights; changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions); approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations); the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease or the impact of a natural disaster may have on the travel and leisure industry; the consequences of the wars in iraq and afghanistan and other military conflicts in the middle east and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks; and pending or future legal proceedings. further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the sec. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information currently available to us. we undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2009, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $3.6 billion. in addition, our wynn las vegas credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness in the future and the wynn macau credit facilities permit us to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include rights to: repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral; initiate judicial foreclosure against us; and petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets. we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas to service and amortize our wynn las vegas indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, and may give us greater exposure to the current adverse economic and industry conditions; we may experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels due to the adverse economic and industry conditions, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject to under our existing indebtedness. we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; we are dependent on certain amounts of cash flow from wynn macau to service wynn macau indebtedness, which reduces the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes at wynn macau; we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund construction costs of encore at wynn macau, satisfy working capital requirements or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; while we do hedge a certain amount of our debt under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; and 18 table of contents if we fail to pay our debts generally as they become due, unsecured creditors that we fail to pay may initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, subject to the requirements of the united states bankruptcy code, and such bankruptcy proceedings will delay or impact the repayment of our secured debt. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, we may, subject to certain limitations, be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain financial covenants and other covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios (currently required for both wynn macau and wynn las vegas credit facilities) and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (currently required for wynn macau credit facilities and will be required for wynn las vegas commencing june 30, 2011). if our operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants causing a default in our agreements. future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. we cannot assure you 19 table of contents that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. if wynn macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness or otherwise become unable to make certain payments or dividends to us which we in turn could use to service our indebtedness, our ability to service the indebtedness of wynn macau or wynn las vegas, llc could be negatively impacted. our subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. in the event of a default by any of our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. risks related to our business continued weakness and further weakening in global economic conditions may adversely affect consumer and corporate spending and tourism trends, resulting in additional deterioration in our business. discretionary consumer spending has been adversely affected by the current economic crisis. worldwide, consumers are traveling less and spending less when they do travel. likewise, corporate spending on conventions and business development is being significantly curtailed as businesses cut their budgets. since our business model relies on significant expenditure on luxury and discretionary items, continuation or deepening of the crisis will further adversely affect our operations. the current conditions in the world financial and credit markets adversely affects prospects of debt refinancing, availability of credit to us and to our customers and the profitability of our business. there was continued instability in financial and credit markets worldwide in 2009. there can be no assurance that the decline is over and there can be no assurance that government response to these conditions will successfully address the fundamental weakness, restore consumer confidence or lead to improvement of or increase liquidity in the markets. customer demand for luxury amenities and leisure activities that we offer may be depressed or continue to decline. there may be excess room supply particularly in the luxury segment in las vegas. there have been and will continue to be large additions to the room supply in las vegas. even after the global economy begins to recover, there may be excess supply, particularly in the luxury segment. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of properties for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are entirely dependent upon wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau for all of our cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; 20 table of contents a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at our properties; and the outbreak of an infectious disease such as h1n1 or the avian flu. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. competition for wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments have recently opened or are currently underway. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas also compete with other hotel/casino facilities in other cities, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries and other forms of gaming. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau, including encore at wynn macau, or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers, away from wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. competition for wynn macau. currently there are approximately 33 operating casinos in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. wynn macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. also one large-scale casino in singapore recently opened and another is expected to open later in 2010, which will add further competition to the region. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries are successful, wynn macau will face additional regional competition. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table game revenue at our properties is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. a continued downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. 21 table of contents in addition, high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. recent dramatic changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent that gaming customers of wynn macau are visitors from other jurisdictions, wynn macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and wynn macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. wynn macau inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on its operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by the factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, the current housing crisis, the current credit crisis, bank failures and the potential for additional bank failures, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, the current global economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. the current recession and economic crisis have resulted in a significant decline in the amount of tourism and spending in las vegas. in 2009, the occupancy rates across las vegas have declined by approximately 4.5%, room rates have declined by approximately 22% and las vegas strip gaming revenue has declined approximately 9.4%, compared to 2008. we also experienced increased levels of attrition and cancellation in the group business segment during 2009. if these trends continue, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. 22 table of contents we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. general. the operations of wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. we received all approvals for the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, and encore at wynn las vegas on december 22, 2008. we are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. we opened wynn macau on september 6, 2006, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain its operation. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt or securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. the suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to macau regulatory framework. wynn macau has developed certain operating procedures which are different from those used in united states casinos. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau, s.a. concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we would be subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the united states (at the federal, state and local levels) and in macau. various legislative actions could change the rates of taxation or the company ability to claim foreign tax credits. if enacted into law, certain provisions of the administration 2011 budget proposal, could impact the company ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits for macau gaming taxes paid after 2010. increases in taxation could adversely affect our results. 23 table of contents terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, natural disasters and contagious diseases, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. the strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities our properties offer. changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the united states and elsewhere, military conflicts in iraq, afghanistan and in the middle east, outbreaks of infectious disease and pandemics, and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis and earthquakes, among other things, have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures. we cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us in the future. an extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. in particular, because our business relies heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations. in addition, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fears of recession and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. negative changes in any factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. we currently have insurance coverage for terrorist acts with respect to wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas and wynn macau for up to $800 million per occurrence for losses that could result from these acts. however, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations. in addition, insurance premiums have increased and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. we may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. while we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. in the event that insurance premiums continue to increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverage we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. we have filed applications with the pto, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts , wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname, wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or a mark primarily constituting a surname) cannot be registered unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. 24 table of contents even if we are able to obtain registration of the wynn-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states patent and trademark office and include wynn macau, encore, and wynn las vegas. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. we have recognized that our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn , are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in all relevant jurisdictions, some of which may pose a risk of unauthorized use or counterfeiting. we have retained counsel and will take all steps necessary to not only acquire but protect our intellectual property rights against such unauthorized use throughout the world. if a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. however, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts and skills of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. in 2008, we extended the term of mr. wynn employment agreement until october 2020. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with us. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. in addition, if mr. wynn is no longer either employed by us as chief executive officer or serving as chairman of the board, other than as a result of death or disability or other limited circumstances, it would constitute a change of control that would require wynn las vegas to offer to repay the first mortgage notes and would constitute an event of default under its credit facilities and wynn macau, s.a. credit facilities. our largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction. mr. wynn, elaine p. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., together own approximately 37.9%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn, elaine p. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant control over all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. in november 2006, mr. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., entered into a stockholders agreement. on january 6, 2010, the agreement was amended and restated to, among other things, recognize mr. wynn transfer of 25 table of contents 11,076,709 shares to elaine p. wynn. pursuant to the amended and restated stockholders agreement, elaine p. wynn became party to the agreement in connection with her ownership of 11,076,709 shares of the company common stock. under the amended and restated stockholders agreement, mr. wynn, elaine p. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors supported by mr. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the agreement requires the written consent of the other parties prior to any party selling any shares of wynn resorts that it owns. in november 2006, the board of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. from nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of the bylaw amendment, either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. or their respective affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or applicable anti-money laundering regulation could have a negative impact on us. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), which generally prohibits u.s. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have a negative effect on our results of operations. 26 table of contents risks associated with wynn macau visitation to macau may decline due to continued economic disruptions in mainland china as well as increased restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china. a significant number of our gaming customers at wynn macau come from mainland china. a continued slow down in the economic growth of china could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our property or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, any travel restrictions imposed by china could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. during 2009, certain policies implemented by china limited visitation to macau and hong kong by mainland chinese residents. it is not known when, or if, these policies will be relaxed. the visa policy may be adjusted further in the future. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. wynn macau competes with the large number of new casino resort developments currently underway in macau for the limited qualified employees. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff wynn macau and recent policies announced by the macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we are coordinating with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our wynn macau operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. we depend upon games promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. increased competition may result in increased pressure on commission rates. a significant portion of our gaming revenue is generated by clientele of our games promoters. with the rise in gaming in macau, the competition for services provided by games promoters has increased. we anticipate that this competition will further intensify as additional casinos are expected to open in macau in the near future. while we believe that we currently maintain good relations with our existing games promoters, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain these relationships. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, or lose a significant number of our games promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our games promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. in 2008, macau experienced a consolidation of games promoters. as a consequence, certain game promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. consolidation could result in negative changes in our operational agreements, including higher commissions, the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of our relationships with games promoters. while we have not had to adjust our compensation arrangements with games promoters thus far, we are aware of increased commission rates paid by other casino operators to games promoters in the macau market. if we need to increase our commission rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in august 2009, the macau government published, in its official gazette, certain guidelines with respect to caps on the commission rates payable to gaming promoters that became effective december 1, 2009. we do not know the impact that such caps may have on our business. further changes or tightening of caps may occur and if the macau government were to implement caps on commission rates payable to gaming promoters that causes us 27 table of contents to pay them effectively less than the level we currently pay, gaming promoters may have less incentive to bring travelers to casinos in macau, including wynn macau, or may cease operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the reputations of the games promoters we deal with are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession and macau gaming laws. while we endeavor, through contractual protections and otherwise, to ensure that our games promoters comply with the high standards of probity and integrity under macau gaming laws, we cannot assure you that our games promoters will always comply with these high standards. in addition, if we enter into a business relationship with a games promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if any of our games promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the games promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. if our games promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. the financial resources of our games promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business at wynn macau. the global financial crisis may cause our games promoters to encounter decreased liquidity limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons and thereby decreasing gaming volume at wynn macau. furthermore, credit already extended by our games promoters to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. this inability to grant credit and collect amounts due can negatively affect our games promoters operations at wynn macau, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. the development costs of encore at wynn macau are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. not all of the construction costs of encore at wynn macau are covered by a guaranteed maximum price construction contract, and we will be responsible for any cost overruns of these excluded items. we expect the total development costs of encore at wynn macau to be approximately $600 million. while we believe that the overall budget for the development costs of encore at wynn macau is reasonable, these development costs are estimates and actual development costs may be higher than expected. although we have certain contingencies set aside to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns and we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs. we have entered into a guaranteed maximum price construction contract for the design and construction of encore at wynn macau with leighton contractors (asia) limited, china state construction engineering (hong kong) limited and china construction engineering (macau) company limited, acting together as general contractor ( leighton/china state ). the contract covers approximately $417.4 million of the budgeted $600 million design and construction costs. we are responsible for cost overruns with respect to any budgeted components that are not part of the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. the financial resources of our contractor may be insufficient to fund cost overruns or liquidated damages for which it is responsible under the amended guaranteed maximum price contract. under the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations of the guaranteed maximum price construction contract, leighton/china state is responsible for all construction costs covered by the construction contract that exceed the approximately $417.4 million guaranteed maximum price contained in the contract. the parent companies of the contractor have provided a continuing guaranty by which they guarantee the contractor full performance under the construction contract until final payment under that contract. we cannot assure you that the contractor or its parent companies will have sufficient financial resources to fund any cost overruns or liquidated damages for which they are responsible under the guaranteed maximum price contract. furthermore, 28 table of contents neither is contractually obligated to maintain the financial resources to cover cost overruns. if they do not have the resources to meet their obligations and we are unable to obtain funds from them in a timely manner, we may need to pay these excess costs in order to complete construction of encore at wynn macau. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. the success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau. in december 1999, after approximately 450 years of portuguese control, portugal returned macau to chinese administration. the people republic of china established macau as a special administrative region. as a result of this change in control, macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. we cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm wynn macau business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. in december 2009, fernando chui sai on was inaugurated as the second chief executive of macau. dr. chui government is formulating new policies to further the development of macau. certain of these policies could affect the gaming industry. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of wynn macau and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. the macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; 29 table of contents defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment located in defined areas of our casino in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. we also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. in october 2009, wynn macau, limited, a newly formed and indirect subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau, had its ordinary shares of common stock listed on the stock exchange of hong kong limited. wynn macau, limited sold through an initial public offering, 1,437,500,000 shares of this subsidiary common stock (representing approximately 27.7% of its outstanding shares). as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. as we develop wynn macau, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; 30 table of contents fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. 31 table of contents currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2009 of our expected long-term indebtedness. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2009, such rates were at historic lows. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2009 of 0.23% and 0.08%, respectively were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. year ending december 31, expected maturity date 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ 1,634.2 $ 500.0 $ 2,134.2 average interest rate 6.6 % 7.9 % 6.9 % variable rate $ 2.7 $ 77.9 $ 712.6 $ 438.0 $ 189.6 $ 31.5 $ 1,452.3 average interest rate 1.4 % 1.8 % 1.9 % 2.7 % 1.9 % 1.5 % 2.1 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis. wynn las vegas we entered into an interest rate swap agreement on august 14, 2009, with an effective date of november 27, 2009, to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit agreement. under this swap agreement, beginning november 27, 2009, we pay a fixed interest rate of 2.485% on borrowings of $250 million incurred under the wynn las vegas credit agreement in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on $250 million of borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit agreement at approximately 5.485%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in november 2012. changes in the fair value of this interest rate swap have and will continue to be recorded as an increase/ (decrease) in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income as the swap does not qualify for hedge accounting. wynn macau as of december 31, 2009, we had three interest rate swaps intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities. under the first swap agreement, we pay a 60 table of contents fixed interest rate of 3.632% on u.s. dollar borrowings of $153.8 million incurred under the wynn macau term loan in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on $153.8 million of the current u.s. dollar borrowings under the wynn macau term loan at approximately 5.382%. under the second swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 3.39% on hong kong dollar borrowings of approximately hk $991.6 million (approximately u.s. $127.9 million) incurred under the wynn macau term loan in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on approximately $127.9 million of the current hong kong dollar borrowings under the wynn macau term loan at approximately 5.14%. both of these interest rate swap agreements mature in august 2011. we entered into a third interest rate swap agreement on august 17, 2009, with an effective date of november 27, 2009, to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau senior revolving credit facility. under this swap agreement, beginning november 27, 2009, we pay a fixed interest rate of 2.15% on borrowings of approximately hk$2.3 billion (approximately u.s. $300 million) incurred under the wynn macau senior revolving credit facility in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on hk$2.3 billion (approximately u.s. $300 million) of borrowings under the wynn macau senior revolving credit facility at approximately 3.9%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in june 2012. changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase/(decrease) in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. summary of historical fair values the following table presents the historical liability fair values as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, of our interest rate swap arrangements (amounts in thousands): wynn resorts wynn las vegas wynn macau total interest rate swaps liability fair value at: december 31, 2009 $ $ 4,224 $ 16,345 $ 20,569 december 31, 2008 $ 15,334 $ $ 12,539 $ 27,873 the fair value approximates the amount we would pay if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. we adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date as applicable. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2009 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ $ 281.7 $ 550.0 $ $ $ $ 831.7 average pay rate 3.52 % 2.30 % 2.72 % average receive rate 1.04 % 1.66 % 1.45 % 61 table of contents we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2009, approximately 83% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2009, an assumed 1% change in variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $6.2 million. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. to date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 18 item 1b unresolved staff comments 31 item 2. properties 31 item 3. legal proceedings 32 item 4. removed and reserved 32 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 33 item 6. selected financial data 35 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 36 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 65 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 105 item 9a. controls and procedures 105 item 9b. other information 105 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 106 item 11. executive compensation 106 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 106 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 107 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 107 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 108 signatures 127 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview wynn resorts, limited, a nevada corporation, was formed in june 2002, is led by chairman and chief executive officer, stephen a. wynn, and is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. we own and operate two destination casino resorts. in las vegas, nevada, we own and operate wynn las vegas, on the strip and encore at wynn las vegas which is located adjacent to wynn las vegas. in the macau special administrative region of the people republic of china ( macau ) we own and operate wynn macau and encore at wynn macau. we present our results based on the following two segments: wynn las vegas (which includes encore at wynn las vegas) and wynn macau (which includes encore at wynn macau). for more information on the financial results for our segments, see item 8 financial statements , note 17 segment information. unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to wynn resorts, the company, we, us or our, or similar terms, refer to wynn resorts, limited and its consolidated subsidiaries. wynn resorts files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments of such reports with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). any document wynn resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e. washington, d.c. 20549 or at the sec internet site address at http://www.sec.gov . information related to the operation of the sec public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com , wynn resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party sec filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. the information found on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. our resorts wynn las vegas wynn las vegas opened on april 28, 2005. we believe that our resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service with 2,716 rooms and suites, including 36 fairway villas and 6 private-entry villas for our premium guests. for the fifth year in a row, the tower suites at wynn las vegas has received both the forbes five-star and aaa five-diamond distinctions for 2011. the spa at wynn las vegas earned five-star recognition from forbes for the third year in a row. the spa at wynn las vegas and the spa at encore are two of the only three spas in las vegas to be recognized with the forbes five-star award. the approximately 110,000 square foot casino features 147 table games, a baccarat salon, private vip gaming rooms, a poker room, 1,842 slot machines, and a race and sports book. the resort 22 food and beverage outlets feature five fine dining restaurants, including restaurants helmed by award winning chefs. wynn las vegas also offers two nightclubs, a spa and salon, a ferrari and maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 223,000 square feet of meeting space and an approximately 74,000 square foot retail promenade featuring boutiques from alexander mcqueen, brioni, cartier, chanel, dior, graff, louis vuitton, manolo blahnik, oscar de la renta and vertu. wynn las vegas also has a showroom which features le r&ecirc;ve, a water-based theatrical production. we believe that the unique experience of wynn las vegas drives the significant visitation experienced since opening. encore at wynn las vegas encore at wynn las vegas opened on december 22, 2008. this resort is located immediately adjacent to and is connected to wynn las vegas and features a 2,034 all-suite hotel as well as an approximately 76,000 square foot casino with 95 table games, a sky casino, a baccarat salon, private vip gaming rooms and 778 slot 3 table of contents machines. for the second year in a row, the encore tower suites has received both the forbes five-star and aaa five-diamond awards for 2011. the spa at encore also earned five-star recognition from forbes. the resort 13 food and beverage outlets include five restaurants, many of which feature award winning chefs. encore at wynn las vegas also offers a beach club, two nightclubs, a spa and salon, approximately 60,000 square feet of meeting space and approximately 27,000 square feet of upscale retail outlets featuring boutiques from hermes, chanel and others. encore at wynn las vegas also has a showroom which features garth brooks and other headliner entertainment acts. wynn macau wynn macau opened on september 6, 2006. wynn macau currently features approximately 595 hotel rooms and suites, 410 table games, 935 slot machines and a poker room in approximately 222,000 square feet of casino gaming space, including a sky casino, six restaurants, a spa and salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 48,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from bvlgari, chanel, dior, dunhill, fendi, ferrari, giorgio armani, gucci, hermes, hugo boss, louis vuitton, miu miu, piaget, prada, rolex, tiffany, tudor, van cleef &amp; arpels, versace, vertu, zegna and others. for the third year in a row, wynn macau and the spa at wynn macau received the forbes five-star distinction. wynn macau includes a show in its rotunda featuring a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling and interchangeable gold prosperity tree and dragon of fortune attractions. encore at wynn macau encore at wynn macau opened on april 21, 2010. this resort is located immediately adjacent to and is connected with wynn macau and features 410 luxury suites and four villas, as well as approximately 34,000 square feet of casino gaming space, including a sky casino, containing 60 table games and 80 slot machines, two restaurants, a luxury spa and additional retail space featuring chanel, piaget and cartier. see item 7 of part ii, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for information about our net revenues. construction and development opportunities in july 2010, we commenced a project to refurbish and upgrade the rooms and suites at wynn las vegas. the total project budget is approximately $83 million. the room remodel was completed in january 2011 and the suite remodel is expected to be completed early in the second quarter of 2011. as a part of this project, we are temporarily removing floors from service at wynn las vegas which reduces our total number of rooms available during the construction period. in the ordinary course of our business, in response to market developments and customer preferences, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to our resort complexes. approximately 142 acres of land adjacent to wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas is currently improved with a golf course. while we may develop this property in the future, due to the current economic environment and certain restrictions in our credit facilities, we have no immediate plans to do so. we have applied to the government of macau for a land concession for approximately 52 acres on cotai and are awaiting final governmental approval of this concession. no construction timeline or budget has yet been developed. we continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in las vegas, other markets in the united states, and worldwide. 4 table of contents our strategy we believe that steve wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. mr. wynn involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. we integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to a variety of customers. our resorts were designed and built to provide a premium experience. wynn las vegas, encore at wynn las vegas, wynn macau and encore at wynn macau are positioned as full-service luxury resorts and casinos in the leisure, convention and tour and travel industries. we market these resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. we also create general market awareness for our resorts through various media channels, including television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards. mr. wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. the senior executive team has an average of approximately 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. we also have an approximately 90-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines. market and competition las vegas las vegas is the largest gaming market in the united states. the casino/hotel industry in las vegas is highly competitive and, prior to the recent economic conditions and interruption in projects under development, had undergone a period of exceptional growth, particularly with the addition of projects targeting the premium customer. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas are located on the las vegas strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos on the strip, those in downtown las vegas, as well as a large number of hotels in and near las vegas. many competing properties draw a significant number of visitors and directly compete with our operations. we seek to differentiate wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas from other major las vegas resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in nevada and atlantic city, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands, casino resorts throughout asia, and elsewhere in the world, as well as state lotteries and other forms of gaming. in addition, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. new or renovated casinos in asia, including two new resorts in singapore and our resort in macau, could draw asian gaming customers away from las vegas. macau macau, which was a portuguese colony for approximately 450 years, was transferred from portuguese to chinese political control in december 1999. macau is governed as a special administrative region of china and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and less than one hour away via ferry from, hong kong. macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 40 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland china, and two neighboring islands, taipa and coloane. we believe that macau is located in one of the world largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. according to macau statistical information, casinos in macau generated approximately $23.5 billion in gaming revenue in 2010, an approximately 58% increase over the approximately $15 billion generated in 2009, making macau the largest gaming market in the world. 5 table of contents macau gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. the macau market has experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last few years. as of december 31, 2010, there were 20,091 hotel rooms and 4,791 table games in macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms and 2,762 table games as of december 31, 2006. gaming customers traveling to macau have typically come from nearby destinations in asia including hong kong, mainland china, taiwan, south korea and japan. according to the macau statistics and census service monthly bulletin of statistics, approximately 88% of the tourists who visited macau in 2010 came from mainland china, hong kong and taiwan. macau completed construction of an international airport in 1995, which accommodates large commercial aircraft and provides direct air service to major cities in asia, including beijing, shanghai, jakarta, taipei, manila, singapore and bangkok. travel to macau by citizens of mainland china requires a visa. government officials have, on occasion, exercised their authority to adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future. prior to 2002, gaming in macau was permitted as a government-sanctioned monopoly concession awarded to a single concessionaire. however, the government of macau liberalized the gaming industry in 2002 by granting concessions to operate casinos to three concessionaires (including wynn macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of macau, to each grant one sub-concession to other gaming operators. there is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. currently, there are 33 operating casinos in macau. in 2002, the other two concessions were granted to sociedade de jogos de macau ( sjm ) and galaxy entertainment group limited ( galaxy ). sjm, which is controlled by the family of stanley ho, operates 20 of the 33 existing casinos, including the hotel lisboa and the grand lisboa. sjm is a hong kong stock exchange listed company. in september 2009, sjm opened l arc macau casino/hotel which is adjacent to wynn macau. in december 2009, sjm opened the casino oceanus which is adjacent to the macau ferry terminal. in addition, an affiliate of sjm owns one of three water ferry services and the helicopter shuttle service that links macau to hong kong. galaxy, a hong kong stock exchange listed company, was also awarded a casino concession in june 2002. galaxy opened the waldo hotel/casino on the macau peninsula in 2004, the grand waldo cotai in the summer of 2006, and galaxy star world hotel casino immediately adjacent to wynn macau in october 2006. in addition, galaxy is currently constructing a resort on cotai, which is expected to open in 2011. las vegas sands corp., the owner and operator of the venetian and the palazzo resorts in las vegas and a former partner of galaxy, entered into a sub-concession agreement with galaxy in 2002 which allows it to independently develop and operate casinos in macau. the sands macao opened in 2004. the venetian macao resort hotel, the largest casino resort in macau, opened in august 2007. in august 2008, an affiliate of las vegas sands corp. opened the four seasons hotel macau which includes serviced apartment units, adjacent to the venetian macao. in addition, an affiliate of las vegas sands corp. has also proposed a masterplan for other large developments in cotai, some of which are scheduled to open in 2011, that would include additional hotel properties as well as serviced apartment units and additional retail and related space. in late 2009, las vegas sands corp. completed the initial public offering of sands china, ltd. on the hong kong stock exchange. a joint venture consisting of melco, a hong kong stock exchange listed company, and crown, ltd., an australian company, is currently operating the altira, which opened in may 2007, and the city of dreams, a large resort in cotai, which opened in june 2009. this joint venture operates its properties under a subconcession purchased from us in 2006. in december 2007, a joint venture of mgm mirage and pansy ho chiu-king (stanley ho daughter) opened the mgm grand macau, a resort on the macau peninsula adjacent to wynn macau. the mgm grand macau is operated pursuant to a subconcession granted to the joint venture by sjm. 6 table of contents our casino concession agreement allows the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos commencing april 1, 2009. if the government of macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, wynn macau will face increased competition from casino operators in macau. wynn macau also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in singapore and the philippines. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming and other casinos throughout asia. geographic data geographic data are reported in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in item 7 management discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations. regulation and licensing the gaming industry is highly regulated. gaming registrations, licenses and approvals, once obtained, can be suspended or revoked for a variety of reasons. we cannot assure you that we will obtain all required registrations, licenses and approvals on a timely basis or at all, or that, once obtained, the registrations, findings of suitability, licenses and approvals will not be suspended, conditioned, limited or revoked. if we are ever prohibited from operating one of our gaming facilities, we would, to the extent permitted by law, seek to recover our investment by selling the property affected, but we cannot assure you that we could recover full value. nevada introduction. the ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the state of nevada are subject to the nevada gaming control act and the regulations made under the act, as well as to various local ordinances. wynn las vegas operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the nevada gaming commission, the nevada state gaming control board and the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which we refer to herein collectively as the nevada gaming authorities. policy concerns of gaming laws. the laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the nevada gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. such public policy concerns include, among other things: preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the nevada gaming authorities; preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our las vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our subsidiary, wynn las vegas, llc, as the owner and operator of wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas, has been approved by the nevada gaming 7 table of contents authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. these gaming licenses are not transferable. company registration requirements. wynn resorts was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn resorts holdings, llc ( wynn resorts holdings ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the nevada gaming control act. wynn resorts holdings was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. in addition to being licensed, wynn las vegas, llc, as an issuer of first mortgage notes registered with the sec, also qualified as a registered company. wynn las vegas capital corp., a co-issuer of the first mortgage notes, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source. periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the nevada gaming commission and provide any other information that the nevada gaming commission may require. substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the nevada gaming commission. individual licensing requirements. no person may become a stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the nevada gaming authorities. the nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the nevada gaming authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the nevada gaming authorities. all applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. however, the nevada gaming authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason, which they deem appropriate. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the nevada gaming authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. if the nevada gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the nevada gaming commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in nevada. redemption of securities owned by an unsuitable person. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. if wynn resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. if the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the nasdaq global select market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and asked prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. wynn 8 table of contents resorts right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. consequences of violating gaming laws. if the nevada gaming commission determines that we have violated the nevada gaming control act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the nevada gaming control act, or of the regulations of the nevada gaming commission, at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. further, the nevada gaming commission could appoint a supervisor to operate wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the state of nevada. limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. requirements for voting or nonvoting securities holders. regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of wynn resorts voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of wynn resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. the applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. the nevada gaming control act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the nevada gaming commission. the nevada gaming control act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company voting securities to apply to the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board mails the written notice requiring such filing. however, an institutional investor, as defined in the nevada gaming control act, which beneficially owns more than 10% but not more than 11% of a registered company voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by the registered company may not be required to file such an application. further, an institutional investor which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company voting securities may apply to the nevada gaming commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by the registered company. an institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the nevada gaming commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company voting securities for investment purposes only. activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and, other activities that the nevada gaming commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. 9 table of contents the articles of incorporation of wynn resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions. wynn resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in nevada which may be examined by the nevada gaming authorities at any time. if any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the nevada gaming authorities. a failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. we are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of wynn resorts voting securities. the nevada gaming commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the nevada gaming control act. the certificates representing shares of wynn resorts common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in wynn resorts articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws. consequences of being found unsuitable. any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the nevada gaming commission or by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. the same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the nevada gaming commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. we will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to wynn resorts; pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or, fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. gaming laws relating to debt securities ownership. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the nevada gaming commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the nevada gaming control act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission, it: pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or, makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. approval of public offerings. we may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar 10 table of contents transactions. on march 19, 2009, the nevada gaming commission granted us and wynn las vegas, llc prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of two years (the shelf approval ). the shelf approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board. the shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the nevada gaming authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. any representation to the contrary is unlawful. approval of changes in control. a registered company must obtain the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company. entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the nevada state gaming control board and nevada gaming commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. the nevada gaming commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. approval of defensive tactics. the nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. the nevada gaming commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon nevada gaming industry and to further nevada policy in order to: assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies; preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and, promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. approvals may be required from the nevada gaming commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. the nevada gaming control act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. fees and taxes. license fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the state of nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries respective operations are conducted. depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or, the number of table games operated. a live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished. foreign gaming investigations. any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, licensees ), and who 11 table of contents proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of nevada, is required to deposit with the nevada state gaming control board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the nevada state gaming control board of the licensee or registrant participation in such foreign gaming. the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the nevada gaming control act. a licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if it: knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of nevada; engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the state of nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. the conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which has granted wynn las vegas, llc licenses for such purposes. in addition to approving wynn las vegas, llc the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. clark county gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. the county has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. macau general. as a casino concessionaire, wynn macau, s.a. is subject to the regulatory control of the government of macau. the government has adopted laws and administrative regulations governing the operation of casinos in macau. only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the macau government and, each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the macau government which, together with the laws and administrative regulations, forms the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. under the laws and administrative regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. the same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the macau government. concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the macau government and are ineffective without government approval. 12 table of contents each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. the appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the macau government. all contracts placing the management of a concessionaire casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the macau government. concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. concessionaires are obligated to withhold, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. such withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. a games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. for a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. the term of a games promoters license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. the dicj has recently implemented certain instructions, which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to and by games promoters. such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on games promoters. under macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. these contractors are subject to approval of the macau government. changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. to conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the macau government. macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters for the following year, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. the macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity. the government of macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. during any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. the government of macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. the government of macau also may terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract. concession agreement. the concession agreement between wynn macau s.a. and the macau government required wynn macau, s.a. to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in macau, including, 13 table of contents at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of december 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately us$500 million) in macau-related projects by june 2009. this obligation was satisfied upon the opening of wynn macau in 2006. wynn macau, s.a. was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million pataca (approximately us$87 million) bank guarantee from banco national ultramarino, s.a. ( bnu ) that was effective until march 31, 2007. the amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million patacas (approximately us$37 million) for the period from april 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. this guarantee, which is for the benefit of the macau government, assures wynn macau, s.a. performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. wynn macau, s.a. is obligated, upon demand by bnu, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the macau government. bnu is currently paid an annual fee by wynn macau, s.a. for the guarantee not to exceed 5.2 million patacas (approximately us$0.7 million). the government of macau may redeem the concession beginning on june 24, 2017, and in such event wynn macau, s.a. will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if wynn macau, s.a. fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. in addition, the government of macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case wynn macau, s.a. would be entitled to reasonable compensation. seasonality we may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. employees as of december 31, 2010, we had a total of 16,405 full-time equivalent employees (including 9,405 in las vegas and 7,000 in macau). 14 table of contents during 2006, we entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and bartenders union local that covers approximately 5,600 employees at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. we also entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the transportation workers union in november 2010, which covers the table games dealers at wynn las vegas. certain other unions may seek to organize the workers at wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. unionization, pressure to unionize or other forms of collective bargaining could increase our labor costs. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. wynn macau and encore at wynn macau compete with the large number of casino resort developments in macau for limited qualified employees. we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our macau resorts and policies announced publicly by the macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we are coordinating with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our macau operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. intellectual property among our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name wynn. wynn resorts has filed applications with the u.s. patent and trademark office ( pto ) to register a variety of the wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname, wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, wynn resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name in certain of the applications based upon factors including mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries, including in macau, china, singapore, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states patent and trademark office and include wynn macau, wynn las vegas and encore. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks. we recognize that our intellectual property assets, including the word and logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in relevant jurisdictions. we have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world. on august 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with mr. wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the wynn name and mr. wynn persona in connection with our casino resorts. under a surname rights agreement, mr. wynn has acknowledged our exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide right to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the wynn name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. under a rights of publicity license, mr. wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until october 24, 2017. 15 table of contents we have also registered various domain names including, but not limited to, www.wynnlasvegas.com , www.wynnmacau.com , www.wynnmacaulimited.com , www.encorelasvegas.com and www.wynnresorts.com , with various domain registrars around the world depending on the domain. our domain registrations extend to various foreign countries such as .com.cn and .com.hk. we pursue domain related infringement on a case by case basis depending on the infringing domain in question. the information found on these websites is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. forward-looking statements the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. certain information included in this annual report on form 10-k contains statements that are forward-looking, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our business strategy and development activities as well as other capital spending, financing sources, the effects of regulation (including gaming and tax regulations), expectations concerning future operations, profitability and competition. any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, would, could, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, plan, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those set forth in item 1a ( risk factors ) as well as the following: adverse tourism and trends reflecting current domestic and international economic conditions; volatility and weakness in world-wide credit and financial markets globally and from governmental intervention in the financial markets; general global macroeconomic conditions; decreases in levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending; continued high unemployment; fluctuations in occupancy rates and average daily room rates; conditions precedent to funding under the agreements governing the disbursement of the proceeds of borrowings under our credit facilities; continued compliance with all provisions in our credit agreements; competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors in reaction to adverse economic conditions; doing business in foreign locations such as macau (including the risks associated with developing gaming regulatory frameworks); restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland china to macau; new development and construction activities of competitors; our dependence on stephen a. wynn and existing management; our dependence on a limited number of resorts and locations for all of our cash flow; leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates); changes in federal or state tax laws or the administration of such laws; changes in state law regarding water rights; changes in u.s. laws regarding healthcare; 16 table of contents changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions); approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations); the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease or the impact of a natural disaster may have on the travel and leisure industry; the consequences of the wars in iraq and afghanistan and other military conflicts in the middle east and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks; and pending or future legal proceedings. further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the sec. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information currently available to us. we undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2010, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $3.3 billion. in addition, our wynn las vegas credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness in the future and the wynn macau credit facilities permit us to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include rights to: repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral; initiate judicial foreclosure against us; and petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets. we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas to service and amortize our wynn las vegas indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, and may give us greater exposure to the current adverse economic and industry conditions; we may experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and high unemployment due to the adverse economic and industry conditions, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject to under our existing indebtedness. we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; we are dependent on certain amounts of cash flow from wynn macau and encore at wynn macau to service wynn macau indebtedness, which reduces the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes at wynn macau; we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to satisfy working capital requirements or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; while we do hedge a certain amount of our debt under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; and if we fail to pay our debts generally as they become due, unsecured creditors that we fail to pay may initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, subject to the requirements of the united states bankruptcy code, and such bankruptcy proceedings will delay or impact the repayment of our secured debt. 18 table of contents under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, we may, subject to certain limitations, be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain financial covenants and other covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios (currently required for both wynn macau and wynn las vegas credit facilities) and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (currently required for our wynn macau credit facility). if our operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants causing a default in our agreements. future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. 19 table of contents if wynn macau and encore at wynn macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness or otherwise become unable to make certain payments or dividends to us which we in turn could use to service our indebtedness, our ability to service the indebtedness of wynn macau or wynn las vegas, llc could be negatively impacted. our subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. in the event of a default by any of our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. risks related to our business the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and reputation of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. mr. wynn employment agreement expires in october 2020. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with wynn resorts, limited. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. continued weakness in the united states economic conditions may adversely affect consumer and corporate spending and tourism trends, resulting in additional deterioration in our business. discretionary consumer spending has been adversely affected by continued economic weakness in the u.s. consumers are traveling less and spending less when they do travel. likewise, corporate spending on conventions and business development is being significantly curtailed as businesses cut their budgets. since our business model relies on significant expenditure on luxury and discretionary items, continuation or deepening of the crisis will further adversely affect our operations. there may be excess room supply particularly in the luxury segment in las vegas. there have been large additions to the room supply in las vegas since december 2009. even after the economy begins to recover, there may be excess supply, particularly in the luxury segment. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are entirely dependent upon our resorts in las vegas and macau for all of our cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; 20 table of contents a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at our resorts ; and the outbreak of an infectious disease such as h1n1 or the avian flu. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. competition for wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas . the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments have recently opened in las vegas. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas also compete with other hotel/casino facilities in other cities, riverboat gaming facilities in other states, casino facilities on native american lands and elsewhere in the world, state lotteries and other forms of gaming. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. competition for wynn macau and encore at wynn macau . currently there are 33 operating casinos in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our macau resort complex also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, such as genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in singapore and the philippines. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries are successful, our wynn macau resort will face additional regional competition. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. 21 table of contents in addition, high-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. recent dramatic changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau and encore at wynn macau. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, high unemployment, the housing foreclosure crisis, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, the economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. general. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. we received all approvals for the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, and encore at wynn las vegas on december 22, 2008. we are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. we opened wynn macau on september 6, 2006 and encore at wynn macau on april 21, 2010, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. 22 table of contents wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt or securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. the suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. wynn resorts articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent a gaming authority makes a determination of unsuitability or to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the board of directors, wynn resorts may redeem shares of its capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. wynn macau and encore at wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to macau regulatory framework. in macau, we have developed certain operating procedures which are different from those used in united states casinos. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau, s.a. concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we would be subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the united states (at the federal, state and local levels) and in macau. various legislative actions or the failure to renew our agreement with the macau government with respect to dividends could change the rates of taxation or the company ability to claim foreign tax credits. if enacted into law, certain provisions of the administration 2012 budget proposal could impact the company ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits for macau gaming taxes paid after 2011. increases in taxation could adversely affect our results. terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, natural disasters and contagious diseases, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. the strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities our resorts offer. changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001, other terrorist activities in the united states and elsewhere, military conflicts in iraq, afghanistan and in the middle east, outbreaks of infectious disease and pandemics, and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis and earthquakes, among other things, have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures. we cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us in the future. an extended period of reduced 23 table of contents discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. in particular, because our business relies heavily upon high-end customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations. in addition, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, high unemployment, and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. negative changes in any factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001 have substantially affected the availability of insurance coverage for certain types of damages or occurrences. we currently have insurance coverage for terrorist acts included in our commercial property insurance policy with respect to wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas, not to exceed $1.5 billion. wynn macau and encore at wynn macau have separate terrorist insurance coverage for up to $800 million per occurrence for losses that could result from these acts. however, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. we may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. while we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. in the event that insurance premiums increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverage we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. even if we are able to obtain registration of the wynn-related marks, such federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. 24 table of contents our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. if a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. however, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. our largest stockholders are able to exert significant control over our operations and future direction. mr. wynn, elaine p. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., together own approximately 35.6%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn, elaine p. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant control over all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. in november 2006, mr. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., entered into a stockholders agreement. on january 6, 2010, the agreement was amended and restated to, among other things, recognize mr. wynn transfer of 11,076,709 shares to elaine p. wynn. pursuant to the amended and restated stockholders agreement, elaine p. wynn became party to the agreement in connection with her ownership of 11,076,709 shares of the company common stock. under the amended and restated stockholders agreement, mr. wynn, elaine p. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors supported by mr. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, controls the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the agreement requires the written consent of the other parties prior to any party selling any shares of wynn resorts that it owns. in november 2006, the board of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. from nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of the bylaw amendment, either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. or their respective affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties 25 table of contents affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or applicable anti-money laundering regulation could have a negative impact on us. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes the company to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing business cross-border and in each of the countries in which it transacts business. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if our employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our international operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our resorts could have a negative effect on our results of operations. risks associated with wynn macau revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment located in defined areas of our casino in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. we also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. 26 table of contents visitation to macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland china as well as increased restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china. a significant number of our gaming customers at wynn macau come from mainland china. any economic disruption in china could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our property or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, any travel restrictions imposed by china could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. it is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented in 2009 restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens to macau and hong kong, will be put in place and visa policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort and policies announced by the macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we coordinate with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. we depend upon games promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. increased competition may result in increased pressure on commission rates. a significant portion of our gaming revenue is generated by clientele of our games promoters. with the rise in gaming in macau, the competition for services provided by games promoters has increased. we anticipate that this competition will further intensify as additional casinos are expected to open in macau in the near future. while we believe that we currently maintain good relations with our existing games promoters, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain these relationships. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, or lose a significant number of our games promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our games promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. certain games promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in games promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with games promoters. while we have not had to adjust our compensation arrangements with games promoters thus far, we are aware of increased commission rates paid by other casino operators to games promoters in the macau market. if we need to increase our commission rates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in august 2009, the macau government published, in its official gazette, certain guidelines with respect to caps on the commission rates payable to gaming promoters that became effective december 1, 2009. further changes or tightening of caps may occur and if the macau government were to implement caps on commission rates payable to gaming promoters that causes us to pay them effectively less than the level we currently pay, gaming promoters may have less incentive to bring travelers to casinos in macau, including our resort, or may cease operations, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 27 table of contents the reputations of the games promoters we deal with are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession and macau gaming laws. while we endeavor, through contractual protections and otherwise, to ensure that our games promoters comply with the high standards of probity and integrity under macau gaming laws, we cannot assure you that our games promoters will always comply with these high standards. in addition, if we enter into a business relationship with a games promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if any of our games promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the games promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. if our games promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. the financial resources of our games promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business at our resort. our games promoters may encounter decreased liquidity, for a variety of reasons, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons and thereby decreasing gaming volume at wynn macau and encore at wynn macau. furthermore, credit already extended by our games promoters to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. this inability to grant credit and collect amounts due can negatively affect our games promoters operations, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. wynn macau and encore at wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. the success of wynn macau and encore at wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. in december 1999, after approximately 450 years of portuguese control, portugal returned macau to chinese administration. the people republic of china established macau as a special administrative region. as a result of this change in control, macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. we cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of wynn macau. our operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. in december 2009, fernando chui sai on was inaugurated as the second chief executive of macau. dr. chui government is formulating new policies to further the development of macau. certain of these policies could affect the gaming industry. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau and encore at wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau and encore at wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resort complex and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. 28 table of contents the macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. in october 2009, wynn macau, limited, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited. wynn macau, limited sold through an initial public offering, 1,437,500,000 shares (27.7%) of this subsidiary common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our wynn macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; 29 table of contents fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. 30 table of contents currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 61 table of contents the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2010 of our expected long-term indebtedness. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2010, such rates remain at historic lows. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2010 of 0.26% and 0.23%, respectively were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ 2,172.0 $ 2,172.0 average interest rate 7.8 % 7.8 % variable rate $ 2.7 $ 344.1 $ 192.8 $ 189.2 $ 348.2 $ 30.1 $ 1,107.1 average interest rate 1.5 % 1.5 % 1.7 % 1.5 % 3.3 % 1.5 % 2.1 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis. wynn las vegas we entered into an interest rate swap agreement to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit agreement. under this swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 2.485% on borrowings of $250 million incurred under the wynn las vegas credit agreement in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on $250 million of borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit agreement at approximately 5.485%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in november 2012. changes in the fair value of this interest rate swap have and will continue to be recorded as an increase/ (decrease) in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income as the swap does not qualify for hedge accounting. wynn macau as of december 31, 2010, we had three interest rate swaps intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities. under the first swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 3.632% on u.s. dollar borrowings of $153.8 million incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. as of december 31, 2010, this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on $153.8 million of the current u.s. dollar borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities at approximately 4.88%-5.38%. under the second swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 3.39% on hong kong dollar borrowings of approximately hk $991.6 million (approximately us$127.9 million) incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amounts at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. as of december 31, 2010, this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on approximately $127.9 million of the current hong kong dollar borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities at approximately 4.64%. both of these interest rate swap agreements mature in august 2011. we entered into a third interest rate swap agreement at wynn macau to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities. under this swap agreement we pay a fixed interest rate of 2.15% on borrowings of approximately hk$2.3 billion (approximately us$300 million) incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on hk$2.3 billion 62 table of contents (approximately us$300 million) of borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities at approximately 3.4%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in june 2012. changes in the fair values of these interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase/(decrease) in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. summary of historical fair values the following table presents the historical liability fair values as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, of our interest rate swap arrangements (amounts in thousands): wynn las vegas wynn macau total interest rate swaps liability fair value at: december 31, 2010 $ 8,457 $ 12,992 $ 21,449 december 31, 2009 $ 4,224 $ 16,345 $ 20,569 the fair value approximates the amount we would pay if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. we adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2010 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ 281.7 $ 550.0 $ $ $ $ $ 831.7 average pay rate 3.52 % 2.32 % 2.77 % average receive rate 0.31 % 0.57 % 0.47 % we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2010, approximately 92% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2010, an assumed 1% change in variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $2.8 million. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar 63 table of contents and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. to date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 17 item 1b unresolved staff comments 31 item 2. properties 31 item 3. legal proceedings 32 item 4. mine safety disclosures 33 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 34 item 6. selected financial data 35 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 36 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 63 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 108 item 9a. controls and procedures 108 item 9b. other information 108 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 109 item 11. executive compensation 109 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 109 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 110 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 110 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 111 signatures 128 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview wynn resorts, limited, a nevada corporation, was formed in june 2002, is led by chairman and chief executive officer, stephen a. wynn, and is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. we own and operate two destination casino resorts. in las vegas, nevada, we own and operate wynn las vegas, which includes encore at wynn las vegas. in the macau special administrative region of the people republic of china ( macau ) we own and operate wynn macau which includes encore at wynn macau. we present our results based on the following two segments: las vegas operations and macau operations. for more information on the financial results for our segments, see item 8 financial statements , note 17 segment information. unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to wynn resorts, the company, we, us or our, or similar terms, refer to wynn resorts, limited and its consolidated subsidiaries. wynn resorts files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments of such reports with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). any document wynn resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e. washington, d.c. 20549 or at the sec internet site address at http://www.sec.gov . information related to the operation of the sec public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com , wynn resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party sec filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. the information found on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. our resorts las vegas operations wynn las vegas opened on april 28, 2005. on december 22, 2008, we opened encore at wynn las vegas, an expansion of wynn las vegas. we refer to the fully integrated wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas resort as our las vegas operations. we believe that this resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service. for the sixth consecutive year, the tower suites at wynn las vegas has received both the forbes five-star and aaa five-diamond distinctions. the spa at wynn las vegas earned five-star recognition from forbes for the fourth year in a row. the spa at wynn las vegas and the spa at encore are two of only four spas in las vegas to be recognized with the forbes five-star award. our las vegas operations feature approximately 4,750 hotel rooms and suites, 220 table games, 2,430 slot machines and a poker room in approximately 186,000 square feet of casino gaming space, (including a sky casino and private gaming salons), casual and fine dining in 35 food and beverage outlets, two spas and salons, lounges, and approximately 97,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from alexander mcqueen, brioni, cartier, chanel, dior, graff, hermes, loro piana, louis vuitton, manolo blahnik, oscar de la renta, vertu and others. our las vegas operations also offer three nightclubs, a beach club, a ferrari and maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 283,000 square feet of meeting space, a specially designed theater presenting le r&ecirc;ve-the dream, a water-based theatrical production, and an encore theater presenting garth brooks and other headliner entertainment acts. we believe that the unique experience of our las vegas operations drives the significant visitation experienced since opening. macau operations wynn macau opened on september 6, 2006. on april 21, 2010, we opened encore at wynn macau, an expansion of wynn macau. we refer to the fully integrated wynn macau and encore at wynn macau resort as 3 table of contents our macau operations. we believe that this resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service. for the fourth consecutive year, wynn macau and the spa at wynn macau received the forbes five-star distinction. our macau operations feature approximately 1,008 hotel rooms and suites, 486 table games, 930 slot machines and a poker pit in approximately 265,000 square feet of casino gaming space, (including a sky casino and private gaming salons), casual and fine dining in eight restaurants, two spas and a salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 54,200 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from bvlgari, cartier, chanel, dior, dunhill, ferrari, giorgio armani, gucci, hermes, hugo boss, louis vuitton, miu miu, piaget, prada, rolex, tiffany, tudor, vacheron constantin, van cleef &amp; arpels, versace, vertu, zegna and others. our macau operations include a show in the rotunda featuring a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling and interchangeable gold prosperity tree and dragon of fortune attractions. see item 7 of part ii, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for information about our net revenues. construction and development opportunities in january 2011, we completed a refurbishment and upgrade to the resort rooms at wynn las vegas. a remodel of the suites was completed in early may 2011. these remodels were completed at a cost of $61 million. in the ordinary course of our business, in response to market developments and customer preferences, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to our resort complexes. in 2011, we formally accepted the terms and conditions of a draft land concession contract from the macau government for approximately 51 acres of land in the cotai area of macau. in december 2011, we paid the initial deposit of $62.5 million pursuant to this draft land concession contract. following government approval, we anticipate constructing on this site a full-scale integrated resort containing a casino, approximately 2,000 hotel suites, convention, retail, entertainment and food and beverage offerings. we continue to finalize the project scope, timeline and budget. our strategy we believe that steve wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. mr. wynn involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. we integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including convention facilities, entertainment, fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to a variety of customers. our resorts are designed and built to provide a premium experience. wynn las vegas and wynn macau are positioned as full-service luxury resorts and casinos in the leisure, convention and tour and travel industries. we market these resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. we also create general market awareness for our resorts through various media channels, including social media, television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards. mr. wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. the senior executive team has an average of over 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. we also have an approximately 90-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines. we continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in the united states, and worldwide. 4 table of contents market and competition las vegas las vegas is the largest gaming market in the united states. the casino/hotel industry in las vegas is highly competitive. over the last several years, las vegas has been impacted by economic disruptions. in 2011, las vegas visitation and gaming statistics began to improve, but uncertainty remains regarding the future gaming, tourism and convention environment. our las vegas operations are located on the las vegas strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in las vegas. many competing properties draw a significant number of visitors and directly compete with our operations. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. we seek to differentiate our las vegas operations from other major las vegas resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury. our las vegas operations also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in nevada and throughout the united states, casino resorts throughout asia, and elsewhere in the world. in addition, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers, such as the recently passed legislation in massachusetts, could have a negative effect on our business. new or renovated casinos in asia, including two new resorts in singapore, resorts in the philippines, and our resort in macau, could draw gaming customers away from las vegas. macau macau, which was a portuguese colony for approximately 450 years, was transferred from portuguese to chinese political control in december 1999. macau is governed as a special administrative region of china and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and approximately one hour away via ferry from, hong kong. macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 40 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland china, and two neighboring islands, taipa and coloane. we believe that macau is located in one of the world largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. according to macau statistical information, casinos in macau, the largest gaming market in the world, generated approximately $33.5 billion in gaming revenue in 2011, a 42% increase over the approximately $23.5 billion generated in 2010. macau gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. tourist arrivals in 2011 were 28 million, compared to 25 million in 2010. the macau market has also experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last few years. as of december 31, 2011, there were 22,356 hotel rooms and 5,302 table games in macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms and 2,762 table games as of december 31, 2006. gaming customers traveling to macau have typically come from nearby destinations in asia including hong kong, mainland china, taiwan, south korea and japan. according to the macau statistics and census service monthly bulletin of statistics, approximately 89% of the tourists who visited macau in 2011 came from mainland china, hong kong and taiwan. macau completed construction of an international airport in 1995, which accommodates large commercial aircraft and provides direct air service to major cities in asia, including beijing, shanghai, jakarta, taipei, manila, singapore and bangkok. travel to macau by citizens of mainland china requires a visa. chinese government officials have, on occasion, exercised their authority to adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future. prior to 2002, gaming in macau was permitted as a government-sanctioned monopoly concession awarded to a single concessionaire. however, the government of macau liberalized the gaming industry in 2002 by granting concessions to operate casinos to three concessionaires (including wynn macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of macau, to each grant one sub-concession to other gaming operators. there is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. currently, there are 34 operating casinos in macau. 5 table of contents in 2002, the other two concessions were granted to sociedade de jogos de macau ( sjm ) and galaxy entertainment group limited ( galaxy ). sjm, which is controlled by the family of stanley ho, operates 20 of the 34 existing casinos, including the hotel lisboa and the grand lisboa. in addition, an affiliate of sjm owns one of three water ferry services and the helicopter shuttle service that links macau to hong kong. sjm is a hong kong stock exchange listed company. galaxy owns the waldo hotel/casino located on the macau peninsula, galaxy star world hotel casino located immediately adjacent to wynn macau, the grand waldo cotai and galaxy cotai. galaxy is a hong kong stock exchange listed company. las vegas sands corp., the owner and operator of the venetian and the palazzo resorts in las vegas and a former partner of galaxy, entered into a sub-concession agreement with galaxy in 2002 which allows it to independently develop and operate casinos in macau. the las vegas sands corp. or its affiliate owns and operates the sands macao, the venetian macao resort hotel, the largest casino resort in macau and the four seasons hotel macau, located adjacent to the venetian macao. in addition, an affiliate of las vegas sands corp. is expected to open sands cotai central, commencing in phases, in 2012, which will include additional hotel properties as well as gaming and retail space. in late 2009, las vegas sands corp. completed the initial public offering of sands china, ltd. on the hong kong stock exchange. a joint venture consisting of melco, a hong kong stock exchange-listed company, and crown, ltd., an australian company, is currently operating the altira and the city of dreams, a large resort in cotai. this joint venture operates its properties under a subconcession purchased from wynn macau in 2006. in december 2011, melco crown, a nasdaq listed company, completed its dual listing and started trading on the hong kong stock exchange. in december 2007, a joint venture of mgm resorts international and pansy ho chiu-king opened the mgm grand macau, a resort on the macau peninsula adjacent to wynn macau. the mgm grand macau is operated pursuant to a subconcession granted to the joint venture by sjm. in june 2011, mgm resorts international and pansy ho chiu-king completed the initial public offering of mgm china holdings limited on the hong kong stock exchange. our casino concession agreement currently allows the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos. if the government of macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, wynn macau will face increased competition from casino operators in macau. resorts located on or near macau compete with other hotels and with other hotel casinos in macau on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment and size, among other factors. wynn macau faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, including the marina bay sands and resorts world sentosa resorts operating in singapore, genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. geographic data geographic data are reported in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in item 7 management discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations. regulation and licensing the gaming industry is highly regulated. gaming registrations, licenses and approvals, once obtained, can be suspended or revoked for a variety of reasons. we cannot assure you that we will obtain all required registrations, licenses and approvals on a timely basis or at all, or that, once obtained, the registrations, findings 6 table of contents of suitability, licenses and approvals will not be suspended, conditioned, limited or revoked. if we are ever prohibited from operating one of our gaming facilities, we would, to the extent permitted by law, seek to recover our investment by selling the property affected, but we cannot assure you that we could recover full value. nevada introduction . the ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the state of nevada are subject to the nevada gaming control act and the regulations made under the act, as well as to various local ordinances. our las vegas operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the nevada gaming commission, the nevada state gaming control board and the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which we refer to herein collectively as the nevada gaming authorities. policy concerns of gaming laws. the laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the nevada gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. such public policy concerns include, among other things: preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the nevada gaming authorities; preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our las vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our subsidiary, wynn las vegas, llc, the owner and operator of our las vegas operations, has been approved by the nevada gaming authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. these gaming licenses are not transferable. company registration requirements. wynn resorts was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn resorts holdings, llc ( wynn resorts holdings ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the nevada gaming control act. wynn resorts holdings was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. in addition to being licensed, wynn las vegas, llc, as an issuer of first mortgage notes registered with the sec, also qualified as a registered company. wynn las vegas capital corp., a co-issuer of the first mortgage notes, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source. periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the nevada gaming commission and provide any other information that the nevada gaming commission may require. substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the nevada gaming commission. individual licensing requirements. no person may become a more than 5% stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining 7 table of contents licenses and approvals from the nevada gaming authorities. the nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the nevada gaming authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the nevada gaming authorities. all applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. however, the nevada gaming authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason which they deem appropriate. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the nevada gaming authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. if the nevada gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the nevada gaming commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in nevada. redemption of securities owned by an unsuitable person. the company articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company or any affiliate application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. if wynn resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. if the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the nasdaq global select market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and ask prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. wynn resorts right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as the board of directors of wynn resorts elects, and as set forth in the company articles of incorporation. consequences of violating gaming laws. if the nevada gaming commission determines that we have violated the nevada gaming control act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the nevada gaming control act, or of the regulations of the nevada gaming commission, at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. further, the nevada gaming commission could appoint a supervisor to operate our las vegas operations and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the state of nevada. limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. requirements for voting or nonvoting securities holders. regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of wynn resorts voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of wynn resorts who must be 8 table of contents found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. the applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. the nevada gaming control act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the nevada gaming commission. the nevada gaming control act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company voting securities to apply to the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board mails the written notice requiring such filing. however, an institutional investor, as defined in the nevada gaming control act, which beneficially owns more than 10% but not more than 11% of a registered company voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by the registered company may not be required to file such an application. further, an institutional investor which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company voting securities may apply to the nevada gaming commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by the registered company. an institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the nevada gaming commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company voting securities for investment purposes only. activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and, other activities that the nevada gaming commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. the articles of incorporation of wynn resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions. wynn resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in nevada which may be examined by the nevada gaming authorities at any time. if any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the nevada gaming authorities. a failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. we are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of wynn resorts voting securities. the nevada gaming commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the nevada gaming control act. the certificates representing shares of wynn resorts common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in wynn resorts articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws. 9 table of contents consequences of being found unsuitable. any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the nevada gaming commission or by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. the same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the nevada gaming commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. we will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to wynn resorts; pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or, fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. gaming laws relating to debt securities ownership. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the nevada gaming commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the nevada gaming control act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission, it: pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or, makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. approval of public offerings. we may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. on march 24, 2011, the nevada gaming commission granted us and wynn las vegas, llc prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of two years (the shelf approval ). the shelf approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board. the shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the nevada gaming authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. any representation to the contrary is unlawful. approval of changes in control. a registered company must obtain the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company. 10 table of contents entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the nevada state gaming control board and nevada gaming commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. the nevada gaming commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. approval of defensive tactics. the nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. the nevada gaming commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon nevada gaming industry and to further nevada policy in order to: assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies; preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and, promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. approvals may be required from the nevada gaming commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. the nevada gaming control act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. fees and taxes. license fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the state of nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries respective operations are conducted. depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or, the number of table games operated. a live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished. foreign gaming investigations. any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, licensees ), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of nevada, is required to deposit with the nevada state gaming control board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the nevada state gaming control board of the licensee or registrant participation in such foreign gaming. the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the nevada gaming control act. a licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if it: knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of nevada; 11 table of contents engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the state of nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. the conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at wynn las vegas is subject to licensing, control and regulation by the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which has granted wynn las vegas, llc licenses for such purposes. in addition to approving wynn las vegas, llc the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. clark county gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. the county has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. macau general. as a casino concessionaire, wynn macau, s.a., an indirect subsidiary of the company, is subject to the regulatory control of the government of macau. the government has adopted laws and administrative regulations governing the operation of casinos in macau. only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the macau government and each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the macau government which, together with the law and administrative regulations, forms the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. under the law and administrative regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. the same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the macau government. concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the macau government and are ineffective without government approval. each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. the appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the macau government. all contracts placing the management of a concessionaire casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the macau government. concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. concessionaires are obligated to withhold, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. such withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. a games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. for a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its 12 table of contents directors and its key employees must be found suitable. applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. the term of a games promoters license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. the dicj implemented certain instructions in 2009, which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to and by games promoters. such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on games promoters. under macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. these contractors are subject to approval of the macau government. changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. to conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the macau government. macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. the macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity. the government of macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. during any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. the government of macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. the government of macau also may terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract. concession agreement. the concession agreement between wynn macau s.a. and the macau government required wynn macau, s.a. to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of december 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately us$500 million) in macau-related projects by june 2009. these obligations were satisfied upon the opening of wynn macau in 2006. wynn macau, s.a. was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million pataca (approximately us$87 million) bank guarantee from banco national ultramarino, s.a. ( bnu ) that was effective until march 31, 2007. the amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million patacas (approximately us$37 million) for the period from april 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. this guarantee, which is for the benefit of the macau government, assures wynn macau, s.a. performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. wynn macau, s.a. is obligated, upon demand by bnu, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the macau government. bnu is currently paid an annual fee by wynn macau, s.a. for the guarantee not to exceed 5.2 million patacas (approximately us$0.7 million). the government of macau may redeem the concession beginning on june 24, 2017, and in such event wynn macau, s.a. will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. 13 table of contents the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if wynn macau, s.a. fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. in addition, the government of macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case wynn macau, s.a. would be entitled to reasonable compensation. seasonality we may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. employees as of december 31, 2011, we had a total of approximately 16,400 full-time equivalent employees (including approximately 9,000 in las vegas and approximately 7,400 in macau). during 2006, we entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and bartenders union local that covers approximately 5,600 employees at our las vegas operations. we also entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the transportation workers union in november 2010, which covers the table games dealers at our las vegas operations. certain other unions may seek to organize the workers of our las vegas operations. unionization, pressure to unionize or other forms of collective bargaining could increase our labor costs. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. wynn macau competes with the large number of casino resort developments in macau for limited qualified employees. we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our macau resorts, and policies announced publicly by the macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we are coordinating with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure that our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our macau operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. 14 table of contents intellectual property among our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name wynn. wynn resorts has registered with the u.s. patent and trademark office ( pto ) a variety of the wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, wynn resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name based upon factors including mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries, including in macau, china, singapore, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states pto and include wynn macau, wynn las vegas and encore. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks. we recognize that our intellectual property assets, including the word and logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in relevant jurisdictions. we have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world. on august 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with mr. wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the wynn name and mr. wynn persona in connection with our casino resorts. under a surname rights agreement, mr. wynn has acknowledged our exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide right to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the wynn name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. under a rights of publicity license, mr. wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until october 24, 2017. we have also registered various domain names including, but not limited to, www.wynnlasvegas.com , www.wynnmacau.com , www.wynnmacaulimited.com , www.encorelasvegas.com and www.wynnresorts.com , with various domain registrars around the world. our domain registrations extend to various foreign countries such as .com.cn and .com.hk. we pursue domain related infringement on a case by case basis depending on the infringing domain in question. the information found on these websites is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. forward-looking statements the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. certain information included in this annual report on form 10-k contains statements that are forward-looking, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our business strategy and development activities as well as other capital spending, financing sources, the effects of regulation (including gaming and tax 15 table of contents regulations), expectations concerning future operations, profitability and competition. any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, would, could, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, plan, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to those set forth in item 1a (risk factors) as well as the following: adverse tourism and trends reflecting current domestic and international economic conditions; volatility and weakness in world-wide credit and financial markets and from governmental intervention in the financial markets; general global macroeconomic conditions; decreases in levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending; continued high unemployment; fluctuations in occupancy rates and average daily room rates; conditions precedent to funding under our credit facilities; continued compliance with all provisions in our credit agreements; competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors; doing business in foreign locations such as macau (including the risks associated with developing gaming regulatory frameworks); restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland china to macau; new development and construction activities of competitors; our dependence on stephen a. wynn and existing management; our dependence on a limited number of resorts and locations for all of our cash flow; leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates); changes in federal or state tax laws or the administration of such laws; changes in state law regarding water rights; changes in u.s. laws regarding healthcare; changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions); approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations); the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease or the impact of a natural disaster may have on the travel and leisure industry; the consequences of military conflicts in the middle east and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks; regulatory or enforcement actions/probity; and pending or future legal proceedings. further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the sec. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information currently available to us. we undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following risk factors, among others, could cause our financial performance to differ significantly from the goals, plans, objectives, intentions and expectations expressed in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks and uncertainties or other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or not currently considered to be material actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2011, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $3.2 billion. in addition, our wynn las vegas credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness in the future and the wynn macau credit facilities permit us to incur additional indebtedness, in each case if certain conditions are met. furthermore, on february 18, 2012, we issued a subordinated promissory note with a principal amount of approximately $1.9 billion in redemption of all of the shares of wynn resorts common stock held by aruze usa, inc. (the redemption price promissory note ). for additional information on the redemption and the redemption price promissory note, see item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 19 subsequent events. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include rights to: repossess and foreclose upon the assets that serve as collateral; initiate judicial foreclosure against us; and petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets; we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas to service and amortize our indebtedness at wynn las vegas, which will reduce the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, and may give us greater exposure to the current adverse economic and industry conditions; we may experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and high unemployment due to the current adverse economic and industry conditions, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; we are dependent on certain amounts of cash flow from wynn macau to service wynn macau indebtedness, which reduces the available cash flow to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes at wynn macau; we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to satisfy working capital requirements or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; 17 table of contents while we do hedge a certain amount of our debt under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; and if we fail to pay our debts generally as they become due, unsecured creditors that we fail to pay may initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, and such bankruptcy proceedings will delay or impair the repayment of our secured debt. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, we may, subject to certain limitations, be permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured senior and subordinated indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. following the company press release on february 19, 2012 relating to the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares of wynn resorts common stock and the issuance of the redemption price promissory note, standard &amp; poor ratings services and fitch ratings revised their ratings outlooks on wynn resorts to stable from positive, although they did not change their ratings of wynn resorts. (moody did not revise the ratings or outlook for wynn resorts as a result of the announcement.) such ratings agency actions could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain financial covenants and other covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios (currently required for both wynn macau and wynn las vegas credit facilities) and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (currently required for our wynn macau credit facility). if our operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants causing a default in our agreements. future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. the debt facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on our restricted subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on the ability to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; 18 table of contents engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. if wynn macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness or otherwise become unable to make certain payments or dividends to us which we in turn could use to service our indebtedness, our ability to service the indebtedness of wynn macau or wynn las vegas, llc could be negatively impacted. our subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries. in the event of a default by any of our subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if certain of our subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our subsidiaries secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. risks related to our business the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and reputation of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. mr. wynn employment agreement expires in october 2020. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with wynn resorts, limited. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are entirely dependent upon our resorts in las vegas and macau for all of our cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; 19 table of contents a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at our resorts ; and the outbreak of an infectious disease such as h1n1 or the avian flu. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. competition for our las vegas operations . the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive and additional developments have recently opened in las vegas. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with other hotel/casino facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from our las vegas operations. competition for macau operations . currently there are 34 operating casinos in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. current concessionaries and subconcessionaires can open additional facilities. our macau resort complex also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, including the marina bay sands and resorts world sentosa resorts operating in singapore, genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries are successful, our wynn macau resort will face additional regional competition. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a substantial negative effect on our future operating results. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. 20 table of contents in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. recent dramatic changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, high unemployment, the housing foreclosure crisis, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, the economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have a negative effect on our business. general. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. we received all approvals for the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, and encore at wynn las vegas on december 22, 2008. we are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. we opened 21 table of contents wynn macau on september 6, 2006 and encore at wynn macau on april 21, 2010, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. wynn las vegas. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt or securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. the suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. the company articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company or any affiliate application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to macau regulatory framework. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau, s.a. concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we would be subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the united states (at the federal, state and local levels) and in macau. changes in the rates of taxation, the amount and the time when income is subject to taxation, the ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption after 2015 and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. terrorism and the uncertainty of military conflicts, natural disasters and contagious diseases, as well as other factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, may harm our operating results. the strength and profitability of our business depends on consumer demand for hotel casino resorts in general and for the type of luxury amenities our resorts offer. changes in consumer preferences or discretionary consumer spending could harm our business. terrorist activities in the united states and elsewhere, military conflicts in the middle east, outbreaks of infectious disease and pandemics, and natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis and earthquakes, among other things, have had negative impacts on travel and leisure expenditures. we cannot predict the extent to which similar events and conditions may continue to affect us in the future. an extended period of reduced discretionary spending and/or disruptions or declines in airline travel and business conventions could significantly harm our operations. in particular, because our business relies 22 table of contents heavily upon premium customers, particularly international customers, factors resulting in a decreased propensity to travel internationally could have a negative impact on our operations. in addition, other factors affecting travel and discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, high unemployment, and reduced consumer confidence in the economy, may negatively impact our business. negative changes in any factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce customer demand for the products and services we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, and our insurance costs may increase. we currently have insurance coverage for terrorist acts included in our commercial property insurance policy with respect to wynn las vegas, not to exceed $1.75 billion. wynn macau has separate terrorist insurance coverage for up to $800 million per occurrence for losses that could result from these acts. however, these types of acts could expose us to losses that exceed our coverage and could have a significant negative impact on our operations. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage in the event of a catastrophic property or casualty loss. we may also suffer disruption of our business in the event of a terrorist attack or other catastrophic property or casualty loss or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. while we currently carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event. in the event that insurance premiums increase, we may not be able to maintain the insurance coverage we currently have or otherwise be able to maintain adequate insurance protection. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. 23 table of contents if a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. however, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn together own approximately 19.7%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. in november 2006, mr. wynn, and aruze usa, inc., entered into a stockholders agreement. on january 6, 2010, the agreement was amended and restated to, among other things, recognize mr. wynn transfer of 11,076,709 shares to elaine p. wynn. pursuant to the amended and restated stockholders agreement, elaine p. wynn became party to the agreement in connection with her ownership of 11,076,709 shares of the company common stock. on february 18, 2012, the company redeemed all of the shares of the company common stock held by aruze usa, inc. for additional information on the redemption, see item 8 notes to the consolidated financial statements , note 19 subsequent events. under the amended and restated stockholders agreement, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn have agreed to vote their shares of our common stock for a slate of directors supported by mr. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, exercises significant influence over the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the agreement requires the written consent of the other party prior to any party selling any shares of wynn resorts that it owns. currently, mr. wynn owns 10,026,708 shares and elaine p. wynn owns 9,742,150 shares. in november 2006, the board of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. from nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of the bylaw amendment, either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. or their respective affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the corporation in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties 24 table of contents affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations could have a negative impact on us. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes the company to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing business cross-border and in each of the countries in which it transacts business. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our international operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. kazuo okada, one of our directors, has failed to comply with internal training in these matters and has failed to return to the company an executed acknowledgment that he agrees to comply with the company code of business conduct and ethics. for additional information on the freeh report, which detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates, and the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares, see item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 19 subsequent events. any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our resorts could have a negative effect on our results of operations. as previously disclosed, in may 2011, wynn macau, a majority owned subsidiary of the company, made a commitment to the university of macau development foundation in support of the new asia-pacific academy of economics and management. this contribution consists of a $25 million payment made in may 2011 and a commitment for additional donations of $10 million each year for the calendar years 2012 through 2022 inclusive. the pledge was consistent with the company long-standing practice of providing philanthropic support for deserving institutions in the markets in which it operates. the pledge was made following an extensive analysis which concluded that the gift was made in accordance with all applicable laws. the pledge was considered by the boards of directors of both the company and wynn macau and approved by 15 of the 16 directors who serve on those boards. the sole dissenting vote was mr. kazuo okada whose stated objection was to the length of time over which the donation would occur, not its propriety. 25 table of contents also as previously disclosed, mr. okada commenced litigation on january 11, 2012, in nevada seeking to compel the company to produce information relating to the donation to the university of macau, among other things. on february 8, 2012, following mr. okada lawsuit, the company received a letter from the salt lake regional office of the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ) requesting that, in connection with an informal inquiry by the sec, the company preserve information relating to the donation to the university of macau, any donations by the company to any other educational charitable institutions, including the university of macau development foundation, and the company casino or concession gaming licenses or renewals in macau. the company has informed the salt lake regional office that it intends to fully comply with the sec request. on february 19, 2012, the company filed a complaint in nevada state court against mr. okada and other entities alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the fcpa. for additional information on legal proceedings between the company and mr. okada and his affiliates, see item 3 legal proceedings. potential violations of law by mr. okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and his affiliates could have adverse consequences to the company. as described in this annual report on form 10-k, on february 18, 2012, the board of directors of wynn resorts received a report from freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp (the freeh report ) detailing numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the fcpa by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and certain of his affiliates. see item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 19 subsequent events. the company has provided the freeh report to applicable regulators and intends to cooperate with any related investigation that such regulators may undertake. the conduct of mr. okada and his affiliates and any resulting regulatory investigations could have adverse consequences to the company. a finding by regulatory authorities that mr. okada violated the fcpa on company property and/or otherwise involved the company in criminal or civil violations could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the company. relatedly, regulators could pursue separate investigations into the company compliance with applicable laws, including in response to litigation filed by mr. okada suggesting improprieties in connection with the company donation to the university of macau and a related informal inquiry by the sec into this donation. while the company believes that it is in full compliance with all applicable laws, any such investigations could result in actions by regulators against the company. mr. okada and his affiliates may challenge the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares. as described in this annual report on form 10-k, on february 18, 2012, after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and mr. okada were unsuitable within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze usa, inc. shares of wynn resorts common stock. see item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 19 subsequent events. universal entertainment corporation has publicly stated that aruze usa, inc. intends to commence litigation, but to our knowledge no such action has been filed. wynn resorts has filed litigation against mr. okada alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims. for more information on this litigation, see item 3 legal proceedings. ongoing litigation and other disputes with mr. okada and certain of his affiliates could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny of regulators. there has been widespread publicity of the findings in the freeh report of prima facie violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates, the board unsuitability finding, the redemption of shares and related litigation. the actions, litigation, and publicity could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited 26 table of contents and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. the disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from gaming regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company gaming licenses, and possibly have a negative impact on the company ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. risks associated with our macau operations revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment located in defined areas of our casino in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. we also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. visitation to macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland china as well as increased restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china. a significant number of our gaming customers at wynn macau come from mainland china. any economic disruption or contraction in china could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our property or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, any travel restrictions imposed by china on its citizens could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. it is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented in 2009 restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens to macau and hong kong, will be put in place and travel policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we coordinate with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor needs are satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. we depend upon games promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. increased competition may result in increased pressure on commission rates. a significant portion of our gaming revenue is generated by clientele of our games promoters. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by games promoters. we anticipate that this competition will further intensify as additional casinos open in macau. other operators in the market have increased commissions and advances to games promoters, in some cases dramatically, in an effort to 27 table of contents increase market share. these types of actions by other casino operators have further intensified competition for the services of games promoters. while we believe that we currently maintain good relations with our existing games promoters, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain these relationships. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, or lose a significant number of our games promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our games promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. certain games promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in games promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with games promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to games promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the reputations of the games promoters we deal with are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. while we endeavor, through contractual protections and otherwise, to ensure that our games promoters comply with the high standards of probity and integrity under macau gaming laws, we cannot assure you that our games promoters will always comply with these high standards. in addition, if we enter into a business relationship with a games promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if any of our games promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the games promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. if our games promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. the financial resources of our games promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business at our resort. our games promoters may encounter decreased liquidity, for a variety of reasons, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons and thereby decreasing gaming volume at wynn macau. furthermore, credit already extended by our games promoters to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. this inability to grant credit and collect amounts due can negatively affect our games promoters operations, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. the success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. in december 1999, after approximately 450 years of portuguese control, portugal returned macau to chinese administration. the people republic of china established macau as a special administrative region. as a result of this change in control, macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. we cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments would affect the business of wynn macau. our operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. 28 table of contents macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resort complex and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. the macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. in october 2009, wynn macau, limited, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited. wynn macau, limited sold through an initial public offering, 1,437,500,000 shares (27.7%) of this subsidiary common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors 29 table of contents of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our wynn macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. 30 table of contents we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2011 of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest 59 table of contents rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2011, such rates remain at historic lows. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2011 of 0.295% and 0.341%, respectively were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 2,172.0 $ 2,172.0 average interest rate 7.8 % 7.8 % variable rate $ 407.9 $ 175.5 $ 189.4 $ 253.2 $ 1.4 $ 28.7 $ 1,056.1 average interest rate 1.92 % 1.69 % 1.87 % 3.29 % 1.55 % 1.55 % 2.19 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis. changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase/(decrease) in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. las vegas operations as of december 31, 2011, we have one interest rate swap intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit facilities. under this swap agreement, we pay a fixed interest rate of 2.485% on borrowings of $250 million incurred under the wynn las vegas credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on $250 million of borrowings under the wynn las vegas credit facilities at approximately 5.485%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in november 2012. macau operations as of december 31, 2011, we have one interest rate swap intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities. under this swap agreement we pay a fixed interest rate of 2.15% on borrowings of approximately hk$2.3 billion (approximately u.s.$300 million) incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the interest rate on hk$2.3 billion (approximately u.s.$300 million) of borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities at approximately 3.4%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in june 2012. we had two interest rate swap agreements to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities, both of which expired in august 2011. under the first swap agreement, we paid a fixed interest rate of 3.632% on u.s. dollar borrowings of $153.8 million incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. under the second swap agreement, we paid a fixed interest rate of 3.39% on hong kong dollar borrowings of hk $991.6 million (approximately u.s.$127 million) incurred under the wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate 60 table of contents based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. until they expired in august 2011, these interest rate swaps fixed the interest rates on the u.s. dollar and the hong kong dollar borrowings under the wynn macau credit facilities at 4.88% - 5.38% and 4.64%, respectively. summary of historical fair values the following table presents the historical liability fair values as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, of our interest rate swap arrangements (amounts in thousands): las vegas operations macau operations total interest rate swaps liability fair value at: december 31, 2011 $ 4,628 $ 2,670 $ 7,298 december 31, 2010 $ 8,457 $ 12,992 $ 21,449 the fair value approximates the amount we would pay if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. we adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2011 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ 550.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 550.0 average pay rate 2.35 % 2.35 % average receive rate 0.40 % 0.40 % we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2011, approximately 84% of our long-term debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2011, an assumed 1% change in variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $5.1 million. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and 61 table of contents the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. to date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk. as of december 31, 2011, in addition to hong kong dollars, wynn macau also holds other foreign currencies, primarily cnh (offshore renminbi). 62 table of contentsrisk factors 18 item 1b unresolved staff comments 35 item 2. properties 35 item 3. legal proceedings 36 item 4. mine safety disclosures 42 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 43 item 6. selected financial data 43 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 45 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 71 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 122 item 9a. controls and procedures 122 item 9b. other information 122 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 123 item 11. executive compensation 123 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 123 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 124 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 124 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 125 signatures 148 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview wynn resorts, limited, a nevada corporation, was formed in june 2002, is led by chairman and chief executive officer, stephen a. wynn, and is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. we currently own and operate two destination casino resorts. in las vegas, nevada, we own and operate wynn las vegas, which includes encore at wynn las vegas. in the macau special administrative region of the people republic of china ( macau ) we own and operate wynn macau which includes encore at wynn macau. we present our results based on the following two segments: las vegas operations and macau operations. for more information on the financial results for our segments, see item 8 financial statements , note 17 segment information. unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to wynn resorts, the company, we, us or our, or similar terms, refer to wynn resorts, limited and its consolidated subsidiaries. wynn resorts files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments of such reports with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). any document wynn resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e. washington, d.c. 20549 or at the sec internet site address at http://www.sec.gov . information related to the operation of the sec public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com , wynn resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party sec filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. the information found on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. our resorts las vegas operations wynn las vegas opened on april 28, 2005. on december 22, 2008, we opened encore at wynn las vegas, an expansion of wynn las vegas. we refer to the fully integrated wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas resort as wynn las vegas | encore or as our las vegas operations. we believe that this resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service. for the seventh consecutive year, the tower suites at wynn las vegas has received the forbes five-star distinction. the spa at wynn las vegas earned five-star recognition from forbes for the fifth year in a row. the tower suites at encore and the spa at encore are also recipients of the forbes five-star distinction. our las vegas operations feature approximately 4,750 hotel rooms and suites, 240 table games, 2,195 slot machines, a race and sports book and a poker room in approximately 186,000 square feet of casino gaming space, (including a sky casino and private gaming salons), casual and fine dining in 35 food and beverage outlets, two spas and salons, lounges, and approximately 95,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from alexander mcqueen, brioni, cartier, chanel, chlo&eacute;, chopard, dior, graff, hermes, iwc schaffhausen, jaeger-lecoultre, loro piana, louis vuitton, manolo blahnik, oscar de la renta, piaget, vertu and others. our las vegas operations also offer three nightclubs, a beach club, a ferrari and maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 283,000 square feet of meeting space, a specially designed theater presenting le r&ecirc;ve-the dream, a water-based theatrical production, and an encore theater presenting various headliner entertainment acts throughout the year. we believe that the unique experience of our las vegas operations drives the significant visitation experienced since opening. macau operations wynn macau opened on september 6, 2006. on april 21, 2010, we opened encore at wynn macau, an expansion of wynn macau. we refer to the fully integrated wynn macau and encore at wynn macau resort as 3 table of contents wynn macau | encore or as our macau operations. we believe that this resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service. for the fifth consecutive year, wynn macau and the spa at wynn macau received the forbes five-star distinction. in 2013, encore at wynn macau and the spa at encore at wynn macau also received the forbes five-star distinction. our macau operations feature approximately 1,008 hotel rooms and suites, 495 table games, 835 slot machines and a poker pit in approximately 275,000 square feet of casino gaming space, (including sky casinos and private gaming salons), casual and fine dining in eight restaurants, two spas and a salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 55,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from bvlgari, cartier, chanel, dior, dunhill, ermenegildo zegna, ferrari, giorgio armani, graff, gucci, hermes, hugo boss, jaeger-lecoultre, louis vuitton, miu miu, piaget, prada, roger dubuis, rolex, tiffany, tudor, vacheron constantin, van cleef &amp; arpels, versace, vertu, and others. our macau operations include a show in the rotunda featuring a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling and interchangeable gold prosperity tree and dragon of fortune attractions. see item 7 of part ii, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for more information. construction and development opportunities in the ordinary course of our business, in response to market developments and customer preferences, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to our resort complexes. in september 2011, palo real estate company limited and wynn resorts (macau) s.a., each an indirect subsidiary of wynn macau, limited, formally accepted the terms and conditions of a draft land concession contract from the macau government for approximately 51 acres of land in the cotai area of macau. on may 2, 2012, the land concession contract was gazetted by the government of macau evidencing the final step in the granting of the land concession. the company is constructing a full scale integrated resort containing a casino, luxury hotel, convention, retail, entertainment and food and beverage offerings on this land. the company estimates the project budget to be in the range of $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion. the company expects to enter into a guaranteed maximum price contract for the project construction costs in the first half of 2013. we expect to open our resort in cotai during the first half of 2016. the initial term of the land concession contract is 25 years from may 2, 2012, and it may be renewed with government approval for successive periods. the total land premium payable, including interest as required by the land concession contract, is $193.4 million. an initial payment of $62.5 million was paid in december 2011, with eight additional semi-annual payments of approximately $16.4 million each (including interest at 5%) which began in november 2012. as of december 31, 2012, the company has recorded this obligation and related asset with $27.9 million included as a current liability and $76.2 million included as a long-term liability. the company will also be required to make annual lease payments of $0.8 million during the resort construction period and annual lease payments of approximately $1.1 million once the development is completed. our strategy we believe that steve wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. mr. wynn involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. we integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including convention facilities, entertainment, fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to the global customer base. our resorts are designed and built to provide a premium experience for our guests. our business is dependent on repeat visitation from our guests and we believe superior customer experience and service is the best marketing strategy to attract and retain our customers. our company heavily emphasizes human resources and staff 4 table of contents training to ensure our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. in addition, we market these resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. we also create general market awareness for our resorts through various media channels, including social media, television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards. mr. wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. the senior executive team has an average of over 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. we also have an approximately 90-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines. we continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in the united states, and worldwide. we recently filed gaming applications and plan to participate in the competitive bidding process for a gaming license in both massachusetts and pennsylvania as part of our strategy to expand in select markets. we are also exploring various international jurisdictions for expansion opportunities. market and competition las vegas las vegas is the largest gaming market in the united states. the casino/hotel industry in las vegas is highly competitive. over the last several years, las vegas has been impacted by economic disruptions. in 2012, las vegas visitation and gaming statistics stabilized, but uncertainty remains regarding the future gaming, tourism and convention environment. our las vegas operations are located on the las vegas strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in las vegas. many competing properties draw a significant number of visitors and directly compete with our operations. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. we seek to differentiate our las vegas operations from other major las vegas resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury. our las vegas operations also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in nevada and throughout the united states, casino resorts throughout asia, and elsewhere in the world. in addition, the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. new or renovated casinos in asia, including two resorts in singapore, resorts in the philippines, and our resort in macau, could draw gaming customers away from las vegas. during 2012, the economic environment in the gaming and hotel markets in las vegas continued to improve with increased levels of gaming revenue, visitation and hotel room demand. while these gaming and hotel statistics have increased from prior year levels, uncertainty still exists in the las vegas market. during 2012, the average daily room rate increased 2.8%, visitation increased 2.1% to 39.7 million visitors, and las vegas strip gaming revenues increased 2.3%, all as compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. during 2011, the average daily room rate increased 10.7%, visitation increased 4.3% to 38.9 million visitors, and las vegas strip gaming revenues increased 5.1%, all as compared to the year ended december 31, 2010. macau macau, which was a portuguese colony for approximately 450 years, was transferred from portuguese to chinese political control in december 1999. macau is governed as a special administrative region of china and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and approximately one hour away via ferry from, hong kong. macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 40 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland china, and two neighboring islands, taipa and coloane. we believe that macau is located in one of the 5 table of contents world largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. according to macau statistical information, casinos in macau, the largest gaming market in the world, generated approximately $38.1 billion in gaming revenue in 2012, a 13.5% increase over the approximately $33.5 billion generated in 2011. macau gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. tourist arrivals in 2012 were 28.1 million, compared to 28 million in 2011. the macau market has also experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last several years. as of december 31, 2012, there were 26,069 hotel rooms and 5,485 table games in macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms and 2,762 table games as of december 31, 2006. gaming customers traveling to macau have typically come from nearby destinations in asia including hong kong, mainland china, taiwan, south korea and japan. according to the macau statistics and census service monthly bulletin of statistics, approximately 89% of the tourists who visited macau in 2012 came from mainland china, hong kong and taiwan. macau completed construction of an international airport in 1995, which accommodates large commercial aircraft and provides direct air service to major cities in asia, including beijing, shanghai, jakarta, taipei, manila, singapore and bangkok. travel to macau by citizens of mainland china requires a visa. chinese government officials have, on occasion, exercised their authority to adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future. prior to 2002, gaming in macau was permitted as a government-sanctioned monopoly concession awarded to a single concessionaire. however, the government of macau liberalized the gaming industry in 2002 by granting concessions to operate casinos to three concessionaires (including wynn macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of macau, to each grant one sub-concession. there is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. currently, there are 35 operating casinos in macau. in 2002, the other two concessions were granted to sociedade de jogos de macau ( sjm ) and galaxy entertainment group limited ( galaxy ). sjm, which is controlled by the family of stanley ho, operates 20 of the 35 existing casinos, including the hotel lisboa and the grand lisboa. in addition, an affiliate of sjm owns several of the water ferry services and the only helicopter shuttle service that links macau to hong kong. sjm is a hong kong stock exchange listed company. galaxy owns the waldo hotel/casino located on the macau peninsula, galaxy star world hotel casino located immediately adjacent to wynn macau, the grand waldo cotai and galaxy cotai. galaxy is a hong kong stock exchange listed company. las vegas sands corp., the owner and operator of the venetian and the palazzo resorts in las vegas and a former partner of galaxy, entered into a sub-concession agreement with galaxy in 2002 which allows it to independently develop and operate casinos in macau. an affiliate of las vegas sands corp. owns and operates the sands macao, the venetian macao resort hotel, the largest casino resort in macau, and the four seasons hotel macau, located adjacent to the venetian macao. in addition, an affiliate of las vegas sands corp. opened sands cotai central in 2012, which includes additional hotel properties as well as gaming and retail space. in late 2009, las vegas sands corp. completed the initial public offering of sands china, ltd. on the hong kong stock exchange. a joint venture consisting of melco, a hong kong stock exchange listed company, and crown, ltd., an australian company, is currently operating the altira hotel in taipa and the city of dreams, a large resort in cotai. this joint venture operates its properties under a subconcession purchased from wynn macau in 2006. in december 2011, melco crown, a nasdaq listed company, completed its dual listing and started trading on the hong kong stock exchange. in december 2007, a joint venture of mgm resorts international and pansy ho chiu-king opened the mgm grand macau, a resort on the macau peninsula adjacent to wynn macau. the mgm grand macau is 6 table of contents operated pursuant to a subconcession granted to the joint venture by sjm. in june 2011, mgm resorts international and pansy ho chiu-king completed the initial public offering of mgm china holdings limited on the hong kong stock exchange. our casino concession agreement currently allows the government to grant additional concessions for the operation of casinos. if the government of macau awards additional concessions or permits additional sub-concessionaires, wynn macau will face increased competition from casino operators in macau. resorts located on or near macau compete with other hotels and with other hotel casinos in macau on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment and size, among other factors. in october 2009, wynn macau, limited, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited. wynn macau, limited sold 1,437,500,000 shares (27.7%) of its common stock through an initial public offering. wynn macau faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, including the marina bay sands and resorts world sentosa resorts operating in singapore, genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. wynn macau also encounters competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. geographic data geographic data are reported in the notes to consolidated financial statements, note 17 segment information. additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. regulation and licensing the gaming industry is highly regulated. gaming registrations, licenses and approvals, once obtained, can be suspended or revoked for a variety of reasons. we cannot assure you that we will obtain all required registrations, licenses and approvals on a timely basis or at all, or that, once obtained, the registrations, findings of suitability, licenses and approvals will not be suspended, conditioned, limited or revoked. if we are ever prohibited from operating one of our gaming facilities, we would, to the extent permitted by law, seek to recover our investment by selling the property affected, but we cannot assure you that we could recover full value. nevada introduction. the ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the state of nevada are subject to the nevada gaming control act and the regulations made under the act, as well as to various local ordinances. our las vegas operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the nevada gaming commission, the nevada state gaming control board and the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which we refer to herein collectively as the nevada gaming authorities. policy concerns of gaming laws. the laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the nevada gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. such public policy concerns include, among other things: preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the nevada gaming authorities; 7 table of contents preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our las vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our subsidiary, wynn las vegas, llc, the owner and operator of our las vegas operations, has been approved by the nevada gaming authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. these gaming licenses are not transferable. company registration requirements. wynn resorts was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn resorts holdings, llc ( wynn resorts holdings ), a wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the nevada gaming control act. wynn resorts holdings was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn las vegas, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. in addition to being licensed, wynn las vegas, llc, as an issuer of first mortgage notes registered with the sec, also qualified as a registered company. wynn las vegas capital corp., a co-issuer of the first mortgage notes, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source. periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the nevada gaming commission and provide any other information that the nevada gaming commission may require. substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the nevada gaming commission. individual licensing requirements . no person may become a more than 5% stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the nevada gaming authorities. the nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the nevada gaming authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the nevada gaming authorities. all applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. however, the nevada gaming authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason which they deem appropriate. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the nevada gaming authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. if the nevada gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the nevada gaming commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in nevada. redemption of securities owned by an unsuitable person. the company articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company or any affiliate application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any 8 table of contents gaming license, shares of wynn resorts capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. if wynn resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. if the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the nasdaq global select market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and ask prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. wynn resorts right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as the board of directors of wynn resorts elects, and as set forth in the company articles of incorporation. based on the board of directors finding of unsuitability, on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts redeemed and cancelled aruze usa, inc. 24,549,222 shares of wynn resorts common stock. the company engaged an independent financial advisor to assist in the fair value calculation and concluded that a discount to the then current trading price was appropriate because of, among other things, restrictions on most of the shares held by aruze usa, inc. under the terms of the stockholders agreement (as defined below). pursuant to the articles of incorporation, wynn resorts issued the redemption price promissory note (the redemption note ) to aruze usa, inc. in redemption of the shares. the redemption note has a principal amount of $1.94 billion, matures on february 18, 2022 and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum, payable annually in arrears on each anniversary of the date of the redemption note. the company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at any time and from time to time, and without penalty or premium, prepay the whole or any portion of the principal or interest due under the redemption note. in no instance shall any payment obligation under the redemption note be accelerated except in the sole and absolute discretion of wynn resorts or as specifically mandated by law. the indebtedness evidenced by the redemption note is and shall be subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in the redemption note, to the prior payment in full of all existing and future obligations of wynn resorts or any of its affiliates in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money of any kind or nature. after authorizing the redemption of the aruze shares, the board of directors took certain actions to protect the company and its operations from any influence of an unsuitable person, including placing limitations on the provision of certain operating information to unsuitable persons, evaluating whether to seek the removal of mr. okada from the company board of directors, and formation of an executive committee of the board to manage the business and affairs of the company during the period between each annual meeting. the charter of the executive committee provides that unsuitable persons are not permitted to serve on the committee. all members of the board, other than mr. okada, were appointed to the executive committee on february 18, 2012. on january 3, 2013, the company filed a definitive proxy statement on schedule 14a ( proxy statement ) for a special meeting of the stockholders to consider and vote upon a proposal to remove mr. okada as a director of the company ( removal proposal ). on january 24, 2013, mr. okada filed a complaint in the united states district court, district of nevada against the company, alleging that the proxy statement was materially false and misleading in contravention of section 14(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and securities and exchange commission rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder. mr. okada also filed a motion for a preliminary injunction on january 28, 2013, in which he sought an order preliminarily enjoining the special meeting of stockholders until such time as the company corrected certain alleged misstatements and omissions in its proxy statement. at the conclusion of a hearing held on february 15, 2013, the federal court denied mr. okada motion. on the afternoon of february 21, 2013, mr. okada resigned as a director of the company. on february 22, 2013, the special meeting of stockholders was held and the stockholders approved the removal proposal with an affirmative vote of 85.7% of the shares entitled to vote at the special meeting (99.6% of the shares that were voted at the special meeting of stockholders were voted in favor of the removal proposal). 9 table of contents consequences of violating gaming laws. if the nevada gaming commission determines that we have violated the nevada gaming control act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the nevada gaming control act, or of the regulations of the nevada gaming commission, at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. further, the nevada gaming commission could appoint a supervisor to operate our las vegas operations and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the state of nevada. limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. requirements for voting or nonvoting securities holders. regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of wynn resorts voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of wynn resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. the applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. the nevada gaming control act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the nevada gaming commission. the nevada gaming control act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company voting securities to apply to the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board mails the written notice requiring such filing. however, an institutional investor, as defined in the nevada gaming control act, which beneficially owns more than 10% but not more than 11% of a registered company voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by the registered company may not be required to file such an application. further, an institutional investor which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company voting securities may apply to the nevada gaming commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by the registered company. an institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the nevada gaming commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company voting securities for investment purposes only. activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and, other activities that the nevada gaming commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. the articles of incorporation of wynn resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions. wynn resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in nevada which may be examined by the nevada gaming authorities at any time. if any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record 10 table of contents holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the nevada gaming authorities. a failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. we are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of wynn resorts voting securities. the nevada gaming commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the nevada gaming control act. the certificates representing shares of wynn resorts common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in wynn resorts articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws. consequences of being found unsuitable. any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the nevada gaming commission or by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. the same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the nevada gaming commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. we will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to wynn resorts; pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or, fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. gaming laws relating to debt securities ownership. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the nevada gaming commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the nevada gaming control act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission, it: pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or, makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. approval of public offerings. we may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. on march 24, 2011, the nevada gaming commission granted us and wynn las vegas, llc prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of two years (the shelf approval ). the shelf approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order 11 table of contents by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board. the shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the nevada gaming authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. any representation to the contrary is unlawful. approval of changes in control. a registered company must obtain the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company. entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the nevada state gaming control board and nevada gaming commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. the nevada gaming commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. approval of defensive tactics. the nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. the nevada gaming commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon nevada gaming industry and to further nevada policy in order to: assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies; preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and, promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. approvals may be required from the nevada gaming commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. the nevada gaming control act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. fees and taxes. license fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the state of nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries respective operations are conducted. depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or, the number of table games operated. a live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished. foreign gaming investigations. any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, licensees ), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of nevada, is required to deposit with the nevada state gaming control board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the nevada state gaming control board of the licensee or registrant participation in such foreign gaming. the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements 12 table of contents imposed by the nevada gaming control act. a licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if it: knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of nevada; engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the state of nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. the conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at wynn las vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which has granted wynn las vegas, llc licenses for such purposes. in addition to approving wynn las vegas, llc the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. clark county gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. the county has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. macau general. as a casino concessionaire, wynn macau, s.a., an indirect subsidiary of the company, is subject to the regulatory control of the government of macau. the government has adopted laws and administrative regulations governing the operation of casinos in macau. only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the macau government and each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the macau government which, together with the law and administrative regulations, forms the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. under the law and administrative regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. the same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the macau government. concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the macau government and are ineffective without government approval. each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. the appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the macau government. all contracts placing the management of a concessionaire casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the macau government. 13 table of contents concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. concessionaires are obligated to withhold, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. such withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. a games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. for a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. the term of a games promoters license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. the dicj implemented certain instructions in 2009, which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to and by games promoters. such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on games promoters. under macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. these contractors are subject to approval of the macau government. changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. to conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the macau government. macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. the macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity. the government of macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. during any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. the government of macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. the government of macau also may terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract. concession agreement. the concession agreement between wynn macau s.a. and the macau government required wynn macau, s.a. to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of december 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion patacas (approximately us$500 million) in macau-related projects by june 2009. these obligations were satisfied upon the opening of wynn macau in 2006. wynn macau, s.a. was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million pataca (approximately us$87 million) bank guarantee from banco national ultramarino, s.a. ( bnu ) that was effective until march 31, 2007. the amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million patacas (approximately us$37 million) for the period from april 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. this guarantee, 14 table of contents which is for the benefit of the macau government, assures wynn macau, s.a. performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. wynn macau, s.a. is obligated, upon demand by bnu, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the macau government. bnu is currently paid an annual fee by wynn macau, s.a. for the guarantee of approximately 5.2 million patacas (approximately us$0.7 million). the government of macau may redeem the concession beginning on june 24, 2017, and in such event wynn macau, s.a. will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if wynn macau, s.a. fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. in addition, the government of macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case wynn macau, s.a. would be entitled to reasonable compensation. other regulations in addition to gaming regulations, we are subject to extensive local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. these include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employment and immigration, currency and other transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, marketing and advertising, lending, debt collection, privacy, telemarketing, money laundering, laws and regulations administered by the office of foreign assets control, and anti-bribery laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our business and operating results. seasonality we may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. 15 table of contents employees as of december 31, 2012, we had a total of approximately 16,000 full-time equivalent employees (including approximately 9,000 in las vegas and approximately 7,000 in macau). during 2006, we entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and bartenders union local that covers approximately 5,500 employees at our las vegas operations. we also entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the transportation workers union in november 2010, which covers the table games dealers at our las vegas operations. certain other unions may seek to organize the workers of our las vegas operations. unionization, pressure to unionize or other forms of collective bargaining could increase our labor costs. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. wynn macau competes with the large number of casino resort developments in macau for limited qualified employees. we seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our macau resorts, and policies announced publicly by the macau government have affected our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we are coordinating with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure that our labor demand is satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our macau operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. intellectual property among our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name wynn. wynn resorts has registered with the u.s. patent and trademark office ( pto ) a variety of the wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, wynn resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name based upon factors including mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries, including in macau, china, singapore, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states pto and include wynn macau, wynn las vegas and encore. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks. we recognize that our intellectual property assets, including the word and logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in relevant jurisdictions. we have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world. on august 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with mr. wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the wynn name and mr. wynn persona in connection with our casino resorts. under a surname rights 16 table of contents agreement, mr. wynn has acknowledged our exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide right to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the wynn name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. under a rights of publicity license, mr. wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until october 24, 2017. we have also registered various domain names including, but not limited to, www.wynnlasvegas.com , www.wynnmacau.com , www.wynnmacaulimited.com , www.encorelasvegas.com and www.wynnresorts.com , with various domain registrars around the world. our domain registrations extend to various foreign countries such as .com.cn and .com.hk. we pursue domain related infringement on a case by case basis depending on the infringing domain in question. the information found on these websites is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k based upon the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, information about our business strategy, development activities, competition and possible or assumed future results of operations, throughout this report and are often preceded by, followed by or include the words may, will, should, would, could, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, plan, continue or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties in item 1a risk factors, other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec as well as the following: our dependence on stephen a. wynn and existing management; regulatory or enforcement actions and probity investigations; pending or future legal proceedings; decreases in levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending; continued high unemployment; fluctuations in occupancy rates and average daily room rates; competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors; uncertainties over the development and success of new gaming and resort properties; new development and construction activities of competitors; our dependence on a limited number of resorts and locations for all of our cash flow; adverse tourism and trends reflecting current domestic and international economic conditions; general global macroeconomic conditions; doing business in foreign locations such as macau (including the risks associated with developing gaming regulatory frameworks); changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions); cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security; changes in u.s. laws regarding healthcare; 17 table of contents changes in federal, foreign, or state tax laws or the administration of such laws; approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations); volatility and weakness in world-wide credit and financial markets and from governmental intervention in the financial markets; conditions precedent to funding under our credit facilities; continued compliance with all provisions in our credit agreements; leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates); restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland china to macau; the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease or the impact of a natural disaster may have on the travel and leisure industry; and the consequences of military conflicts in the middle east and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks. further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the sec. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to us at the time this statement is made. we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, regarding matters which could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our business the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and reputation of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. mr. wynn employment agreement expires in october 2020. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with wynn resorts, limited. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. potential violations of law by mr. okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and his affiliates could have adverse consequences to the company. on february 18, 2012, the board of directors of wynn resorts received a report from freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp (the freeh report ) detailing numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the fcpa by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and certain of his affiliates. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies. the company has provided the freeh report to applicable regulators and has been cooperating with related investigations of such regulators. the conduct of mr. okada and his affiliates and the outcome of any resulting regulatory findings could have adverse consequences to the company. a 18 table of contents finding by regulatory authorities that mr. okada violated the fcpa on company property and/or otherwise involved the company in criminal or civil violations could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the company. relatedly, regulators could pursue separate investigations into the company compliance with applicable laws, including in response to litigation filed by mr. okada suggesting improprieties in connection with the company donation to the university of macau and a related informal inquiry by the sec into this donation. while the company believes that it is in full compliance with all applicable laws, any such investigations could result in actions by regulators against the company. mr. okada and his affiliates have challenged the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares. an adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the related litigation could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business. on february 18, 2012, after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and mr. okada were unsuitable within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze usa, inc. shares of wynn resorts common stock. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies. on february 19, 2012, the company filed a complaint in nevada state court against mr. okada and certain of his affiliates (the okada parties ) alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the fcpa and seeking a declaration that the redemption was proper (collectively, the redemption action ). on march 12, 2012, the okada parties filed an answer and cross claim against the company, each of the members of the company board of directors (other than mr. okada) and wynn resorts general counsel seeking, among other things, a declaration that the redemption of aruze usa , inc. shares was void, an injunction restoring aruze usa, inc. share ownership, damages in an unspecified amount and rescission of the amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of january 6, 2010, by and among aruze usa, inc., steve wynn and elaine wynn as amended from time to time. in connection with the redemption action and okada parties cross claim, (1) various okada parties filed a complaint in the tokyo district court against the company, all members of the board (other than mr. okada) and the company general counsel alleging that the press release issued by the company in connection with the redemption action has damaged their social evaluation and credibility and seeking damages and legal fees, (2) four federal derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors and (3) two state derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors. see item 3 legal proceedings, for a full description of these proceedings and status as of the date of this report. the company is vigorously pursuing its claims against the okada parties, and together with the other counter-defendants vigorously defending against the counterclaims and other actions asserted against them. however, as with all litigation, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties, including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. change in valuation of our redemption price promissory note could have a negative impact on our results of operations in connection with the redemption of the shares previously held by aruze usa, inc., we recorded the fair value of the redemption note at its estimated present value of approximately $1.94 billion in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. in determining this fair value, we considered the stated maturity of the redemption note, its stated interest rate, and the uncertainty of the related cash flows of the redemption note as well as the potential effects of the following: uncertainties surrounding the potential outcome and timing of pending litigation with aruze usa, inc. (see item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies. ); the outcome of on-going investigations by the nevada gaming control board; and other potential legal and regulatory actions. in addition, in the furtherance of various future business objectives, we considered our ability, at our sole option, to prepay the redemption note at any time in 19 table of contents accordance with its terms without penalty. accordingly, we reasonably determined that the estimated life of the redemption note could be less than the contractual life of the redemption note. when considering the appropriate rate of interest to be used to determine fair value for accounting purposes and in light of the uncertainty in the timing of the cash flows, we used observable inputs from a range of trading values of financial instruments with terms and lives similar to the estimated life and terms of the redemption note. as a result of this analysis, we concluded the redemption note stated rate of 2% approximated a market rate. a change in any of the assumptions discussed above could result in a change in the fair value of this redemption note and significantly impact our results of operations. ongoing litigation and other disputes with mr. okada and certain of his affiliates could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny of regulators. there has been widespread publicity of the findings in the freeh report of prima facie violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates, the board unsuitability finding, the redemption of shares and related litigation. the actions, litigation, and publicity could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. the disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from gaming regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company gaming licenses, and possibly have a negative impact on the company ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations could have a negative impact on us. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes the company to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing business cross-border and in each of the countries in which it transacts business. we are subject to regulations imposed by the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our international operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. kazuo okada, one of our directors, has failed to comply with internal training in these matters and has failed to return to the company an executed acknowledgment that he agrees to comply with the company code of business conduct and ethics. for additional information on the freeh report, which detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates, and the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares, see item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies. on february 8, 2012, the company received a letter from the salt lake regional office of the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ) requesting that, in connection with an informal inquiry by the sec, the company preserve information relating to a donation made by the company to the university of macau, any donations by the company to any other educational charitable institutions, including the university of macau development foundation, and the company casino or concession gaming licenses or renewals in macau. as previously disclosed, in may 2011, wynn macau, a majority owned subsidiary of the company, made a commitment to the university of macau development foundation in support of the new asia-pacific academy of economics and management. this contribution consists of a $25 million payment made in may 2011 and a commitment for additional donations of $10 million each year for the calendar years 2012 through 2022 20 table of contents inclusive. the pledge was consistent with the company long-standing practice of providing philanthropic support for deserving institutions in the markets in which it operates. the pledge was made following an extensive analysis which concluded that the gift was made in accordance with all applicable laws. the pledge was considered by the boards of directors of both the company and wynn macau and approved by 15 of the 16 directors who served on those boards. the sole dissenting vote was mr. kazuo okada whose stated objection was to the length of time over which the donation would occur, not its propriety. the sec letter was received after mr. okada commenced litigation in nevada on january 11, 2012 against the company seeking to compel the company to produce information relating to the donation to the university of macau, among other things. on february 19, 2012, the company filed a complaint in nevada state court against mr. okada and other entities alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the fcpa. for a detailed description of the legal proceedings between the company and mr. okada and his affiliates, see item 3 legal proceedings. the company has been fully cooperating with the salt lake regional office of the sec. however, any determination that we have violated the fcpa could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our resorts could have a negative effect on our results of operations. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations also increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, high unemployment, the housing foreclosure crisis, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition. competition for our las vegas operations . the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with other hotel/casino facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from our las vegas operations. competition for macau operations . currently there are 35 operating casinos in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three sub-concessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming 21 table of contents concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cashflows. current concessionaries and subconcessionaires can open additional facilities. our macau resort complex also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, including the marina bay sands and resorts world sentosa resorts operating in singapore, genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries are successful, our wynn macau resort will face additional regional competition. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are entirely dependent upon our las vegas operations and our macau operations for all of our operating cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; a decrease in gaming and non-gaming activities at our resorts ; and the outbreak of infectious diseases. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. our efforts to develop gaming and resort properties in other locations may be costly and may not be successful. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cashflows. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. 22 table of contents wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. recent dramatic changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities, could have a negative effect on our business. general. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. we received all approvals for the opening of wynn las vegas on april 28, 2005, and encore at wynn las vegas on december 22, 2008. we are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. we opened wynn macau on september 6, 2006 and encore at wynn macau on april 21, 2010, and are subject to ongoing regulation to maintain their operations. wynn las vegas. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt or securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations may be levied. the suspension or revocation of any license which may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or 23 table of contents regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. the company articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company or any affiliate application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. on february 18, 2012, the board of directors of wynn resorts received a report from freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp (the freeh report ) detailing numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the fcpa by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and certain of his affiliates. see item 3 legal proceedings , and item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies. after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and mr. okada were unsuitable within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze usa, inc. shares of wynn resorts common stock. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies . wynn macau. wynn macau operations are subject to unique risks, including risks related to macau regulatory framework. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau, s.a. concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we would be subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security. we rely on information technology and other systems to maintain and transmit customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information. in addition, our financial and recordkeeping processes are run from one central location at a secured off site network operations center. we have implemented systems that are designed to meet all requirements of the payment card industry standards for data protection. however, our information and processes are subject to the ever-changing threat of compromised security, in the form of a risk of potential breach, system failure, computer virus, or unauthorized or fraudulent use by customers, company employees, or employees of third party vendors. the steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful, and any resulting compromise or loss of data or systems could adversely impact, operations or regulatory compliance and could result in remedial expenses, fines, litigation, and loss of reputation, potentially impacting our financial results. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. 24 table of contents these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties in operation as well as those in the course of construction with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or certain liabilities may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. in addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements. our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. most of our customers travel to reach our las vegas and macau properties. acts of terrorism may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to las vegas and macau, including our properties. regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. management cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of war would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. we conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. our subsidiaries payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. in addition, our subsidiaries debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. we expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. 25 table of contents if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. if a third party asserts other forms of intellectual property claims against us, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. historically, trademarks and service marks have been the principal form of intellectual property right of relevance to the gaming industry. however, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the rates of taxation, the amount and the time when income is subject to taxation, the ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption after 2015 and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. risks associated with our macau operations we depend upon games promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. increased competition may result in increased pressure on commission rates. a significant portion of our gaming revenue is generated by clientele of our games promoters. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by games promoters. we anticipate 26 table of contents that this competition will further intensify as additional casinos open in macau. other operators in the market have increased commissions and advances to games promoters, in some cases dramatically, in an effort to increase market share. these types of actions by other casino operators have further intensified competition for the services of games promoters. while we believe that we currently maintain good relations with our existing games promoters, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain these relationships. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, or lose a significant number of our games promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our games promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. certain games promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in games promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with games promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to games promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the reputations and probity of the games promoters we deal with are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. while we endeavor, through contractual protections and otherwise, to ensure that our games promoters comply with high standards of probity and integrity, we cannot assure you that our games promoters will always comply with these standards. in addition, if we enter into a business relationship with a games promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if any of our games promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the games promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. if our games promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. the financial resources of our games promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business at our resort. our games promoters may encounter decreased liquidity, for a variety of reasons, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons and thereby decreasing gaming volume at wynn macau. furthermore, credit already extended by our games promoters to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. this inability to grant credit and collect amounts due can negatively affect our games promoters operations, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. we also cannot assure you that if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. 27 table of contents the development costs of cotai are estimates only, and actual development costs may be higher than expected. we expect the total development costs of our cotai project to be in the range of $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion, including the budgeted design and construction costs, cost of the land payments (through opening), capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses and all financing fees. the required cash interest payments and commitment fees on our wynn macau credit facilities which will become due through the estimated commencement date of operations of wynn macau have been included in our estimate of the total development costs. while we believe that the overall budget for the development costs of cotai are reasonable, these development costs are estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. although we have certain owners contingencies set aside to cover cost overruns, these contingencies may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs. there are significant risks associated with the construction of cotai, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from this planned facility. major construction projects of the scope and scale of our cotai project entail significant risks, including: shortages of materials or skilled labor; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of our cotai project. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of a subcontractor work and payment for all of that subcontractor labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. we have not yet entered into a final agreement with a general contractor or any trade contractors with respect to the construction of cotai. we may not agree with general or trade contractors on financial and other terms that will meet our forecasted cost budget and schedule. our cotai facility may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for this project may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete this project on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. our macau subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our macau subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. in the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their 28 table of contents collateral security, and only then would holders of our macau subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. visitation to macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland china as well as increased restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china. a significant number of our gaming customers at wynn macau come from mainland china. any economic disruption or contraction in china could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our property or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, any travel restrictions imposed by china on its citizens could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. it is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented in 2009 restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens to macau and hong kong, will be put in place and travel policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in retaining our employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. we coordinate with the macau labor and immigration authorities to ensure our labor needs are satisfied, but cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or that we will be able to obtain required work permits for those employees. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. the success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. in december 1999, after approximately 450 years of portuguese control, portugal returned macau to chinese administration. the people republic of china established macau as a special administrative region. as a result of this change in control, macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. we cannot predict how these systems and cultural institutions will develop, or how developments will affect the business of wynn macau. our operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions that might impede its ability to repatriate funds. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resort complex and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. 29 table of contents the macau government can terminate our concession under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau, s.a.: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau, s.a. will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. in october 2009, wynn macau, limited, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock exchange of hong kong limited. wynn macau, limited sold through an initial public offering, 1,437,500,000 shares (27.7%) of this subsidiary common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our wynn macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; 30 table of contents engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. we cannot assure you that the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca will continue to be linked to the u.s. dollar, which may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and 31 table of contents restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. risks related to share ownership and stockholder matters our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. as of december 31, 2012, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn own 10,026,708 shares and 9,742,150 shares, respectively, or in the aggregate approximately 19.6%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. in addition, until february 2012, aruze usa, inc. owned 24,549,222 shares of our outstanding common stock. on february 18, 2012, the company redeemed all of the shares of the company common stock held by aruze usa, inc. for additional information on the redemption, see item 8 notes to the consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies . under the amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of january 6, 2010, by and among stephen a. wynn, elaine p. wynn and aruze usa, inc. (the amended and restated stockholders agreement ), mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn have agreed to vote the shares of the company common stock held by them subject to the terms of the amended and restated stockholders agreement in a manner so as to elect to our board of directors each of the nominees contained on each and every slate of directors endorsed by mr. wynn, which slate will include, subject to certain exceptions, elaine p. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, exercises significant influence over the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the amended and restated stockholders agreement requires the written consent of the other party prior to any party selling any shares of the company common stock that it owns. in june 2012, in connection with the pending litigation between the company and aruze usa, inc., elaine p. wynn submitted a cross claim against mr. wynn and kazuo okada seeking to void the amended and restated stockholders agreement. the wynn las vegas indentures provide that if mr. wynn, together with certain related parties, in the aggregate beneficially owns a lesser percentage of the outstanding common stock of the company than is beneficially owned by any other person, a change of control will have occurred. if elaine wynn prevails in her cross claim, mr. wynn would not beneficially own or control elaine wynn shares and a change in control may result under the indentures. for additional information on the cross claim, see item 8 notes to the consolidated financial statements , note 8 long-term debt and note 16 commitments and contingencies . in november 2006, the board of directors of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. from nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes. in light of the determination by the board of directors on february 18, 2012 that each of aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and mr. kazuo okada is an unsuitable person under the company articles of incorporation and the redemption and cancellation of aruze usa inc. shares of company common stock, our fifth amended and restated bylaws amended these provisions to delete the reference to aruze usa, inc. and its affiliates. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of these bylaws provisions, mr. wynn or his affiliates may acquire ownership of 32 table of contents outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting him or them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the company in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the company stockholders granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2012, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $5.8 billion. this amount reflects a portion of the funds we need to construct our cotai project. however, as our project budget is an estimate only as of the date of this report, we may require additional financing to complete construction of our cotai project. the estimated project budget for our cotai project is in the range of $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion and we expect to enter into a guaranteed maximum price contract for the project construction costs in the first half of 2013. see item 1 business , construction and development opportunities . in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our wynn macau credit facilities and our wynn las vegas indentures, as applicable, including but not limited to in connection with other potential development plans in the future. furthermore, on february 18, 2012, we issued a subordinated promissory note with a principal amount of approximately $1.9 billion in redemption of all of the shares of wynn resorts common stock held by aruze usa, inc. (the redemption note ). for additional information on the redemption and the redemption note, see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies . our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: if we fail to meet our payment obligations or otherwise default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, the lenders under those agreements will have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and exercise other rights and remedies against us. these rights and remedies include rights to: repossess and foreclose upon any assets that serve as collateral; in the case of secured debt, initiate judicial foreclosure against us; petition a court to appoint a receiver for us or for substantially all of our assets; we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and wynn macau to service and amortize, as applicable, our indebtedness at wynn las vegas and wynn macau, respectively, which will reduce the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital, other capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes at wynn las vegas and wynn macau, respectively, and may give us greater exposure to adverse economic and industry conditions; aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and kazuo okada have challenged the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares and we are currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. the outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 notes to consolidated financial statements , note 16 commitments and contingencies . we may experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and high unemployment due to adverse economic and industry conditions, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; we may have a limited ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; 33 table of contents we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to satisfy working capital requirements or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; while we do hedge a certain amount of our debt under our credit facilities, rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase; and if we fail to pay our debts generally as they become due, unsecured creditors that we fail to pay may initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us, and such bankruptcy proceedings will delay or impair the repayment of our debt. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness, including secured and unsecured senior and subordinated indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. following the company press release on february 19, 2012 relating to the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares of wynn resorts common stock and the issuance of the redemption price promissory note, standard &amp; poor ratings services and fitch ratings revised their ratings outlooks on wynn resorts to stable from positive, although they did not change their ratings of wynn resorts. (moody did not revise the ratings or outlook for wynn resorts as a result of the announcement.) such ratings agency actions could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain financial covenants and other covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (both currently required for our wynn macau credit facilities). if our operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants causing a default in our agreements. future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities, including failure as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; enter into sale-leaseback transactions; 34 table of contents engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. if there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and such event also could result in an event of default under other debt. we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. if wynn macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness or otherwise become unable to make certain payments or dividends to us which we in turn could use to service our indebtedness, our ability to service the indebtedness at wynn macau or wynn las vegas could be negatively impacted. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 67 table of contents the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2012 of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2012, such rates remain at historic lows. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2012 of 0.2087% and 0.2775%, respectively were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable. years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ 500.0 $ 4,508.5 $ 5,008.5 average interest rate 7.875 % 4.82 % 5.12 % variable rate $ 1.1 $ 1.4 $ 1.4 $ 1.4 $ 405.3 $ 376.5 $ 787.1 average interest rate 1.46 % 1.46 % 1.46 % 1.46 % 2.66 % 2.76 % 2.70 % interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis. changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase (decrease) in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. las vegas operations in june 2012, we terminated our only wynn las vegas swap for a payment of $2.4 million. macau operations in june 2012, the wynn macau swap matured. as of december 31, 2011, the liability fair value of this interest rate swap was approximately $2.7 million. effective, september 28, 2012, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the amended wynn macau credit facilities. under the two swap agreements, the company pays a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.73% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of hk$3.95 billion (approximately us$509.4 million) incurred under the amended wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. these interest rate swaps fix the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.48% to 3.23%. these interest rate swap agreements mature in july 2017. effective october 31, 2012, we entered into a third interest rate swap agreement intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the amended wynn macau credit facilities. under this swap agreement, the company pays a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.6763% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of us$243.75 million incurred under the amended wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.4263% to 3.1763%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in july 2017. 68 table of contents summary of historical fair values the following table presents the historical liability fair values as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, of our interest rate swap arrangements (amounts in thousands): las vegas operations macau operations total interest rate swaps liability fair value at: december 31, 2012 $ $ 3,938 $ 3,938 december 31, 2011 $ 4,628 $ 2,670 $ 7,298 the fair value approximates the amount we would pay if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. we adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2012 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ $ $ $ $ 753.2 $ $ 753.2 average pay rate % % % % 0.71 % % 0.71 % average receive rate % % % % 0.60 % % 0.60 % we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2012, essentially all of our debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. 69 table of contents because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. to date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk. approximately 70% of our cash balances are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the hong kong dollar. based on our balances at december 31, 2012, an assumed 1% change in the us dollar/hong kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of approximately $9.7 million. as of december 31, 2012, in addition to hong kong dollars, wynn macau also holds other foreign currencies, primarily cnh (offshore renminbi). 70 table of contentsrisk factors 18 item 1b unresolved staff comments 34 item 2. properties 34 item 3. legal proceedings 35 item 4. mine safety disclosures 41 part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 42 item 6. selected financial data 42 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 44 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 73 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 127 item 9a. controls and procedures 127 item 9b. other information 127 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 128 item 11. executive compensation 128 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 128 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 129 item 14. principal accountant fees and services 129 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules 130 signatures 145 2 table of contents part i item 1. business overview wynn resorts, limited, a nevada corporation, was formed in june 2002, is led by chairman and chief executive officer, stephen a. wynn, and is a leading developer, owner and operator of destination casino resorts. wynn resorts, limited currently owns 72.3% of wynn macau, limited which operates a casino hotel resort property in the macau special administrative region of the people republic of china ( macau ). in las vegas, nevada, we own and operate wynn las vegas, which includes encore at wynn las vegas. we present our results based on the following two segments: macau operations and las vegas operations. for more information on the financial results for our segments, see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 segment information. unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to wynn resorts, the company, we, us or our, or similar terms, refer to wynn resorts, limited and its consolidated subsidiaries. wynn resorts files annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments of such reports with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ). any document wynn resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e. washington, d.c. 20549 or at the sec internet site address at http://www.sec.gov . information related to the operation of the sec public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com , wynn resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party sec filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. the information found on our website is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. our resorts macau operations wynn macau opened on september 6, 2006. on april 21, 2010, we opened encore at wynn macau, an expansion of wynn macau. we refer to the fully integrated wynn macau and encore at wynn macau resort as wynn macau | encore or as our macau operations. we believe that this resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service. our macau operations feature 1,008 spacious guest rooms and suites, 493 table games, 866 slot machines and a poker pit in approximately 280,000 square feet of casino gaming space (including sky casinos and private gaming salons), casual and fine dining in eight restaurants, two spas and a salon, lounges, meeting facilities and approximately 57,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from bvlgari, cartier, chanel, dior, dunhill, ermenegildo zegna, ferrari, giorgio armani, graff, gucci, hermes, hugo boss, jaeger-lecoultre, loro piana, louis vuitton, miu miu, piaget, prada, roger dubuis, rolex, tiffany, tudor, vacheron constantin, van cleef &amp; arpels, versace, vertu, and others. our macau operations include a show in the rotunda featuring a chinese zodiac-inspired ceiling along with gold prosperity tree and dragon of fortune attractions. las vegas operations wynn las vegas opened on april 28, 2005. on december 22, 2008, we opened encore at wynn las vegas, an expansion of wynn las vegas. we refer to the fully integrated wynn las vegas and encore at wynn las vegas resort as wynn las vegas | encore or as our las vegas operations. we believe that this resort offers exceptional accommodations, amenities and service. 3 table of contents our las vegas operations feature 4,748 hotel rooms and suites, 230 table games, 1,854 slot machines, a race and sports book and a poker room in approximately 186,000 square feet of casino gaming space (including a sky casino and private gaming salons), casual and fine dining in 34 food and beverage outlets, two spas and salons, lounges, and approximately 96,000 square feet of retail space featuring boutiques from alexander mcqueen, brioni, cartier, chanel, chlo&eacute;, chopard, dior, graff, hermes, iwc schaffhausen, jaeger-lecoultre, loro piana, louis vuitton, manolo blahnik, nicholas kirkwood, oscar de la renta, piaget, rolex, vertu and others. our las vegas operations also offer three nightclubs, a beach club, a ferrari and maserati automobile dealership, wedding chapels, an 18-hole golf course, approximately 284,000 square feet of meeting space, a specially designed theater presenting le r&ecirc;ve-the dream, a water-based theatrical production, and the encore theater presenting various headliner entertainment acts throughout the year. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations for more information. construction and development opportunities in the ordinary course of our business, and as a market leader and innovator, we have made and continue to make certain enhancements and refinements to our resort complexes. in september 2011, palo real estate company limited ( palo ) and wynn resorts (macau), s.a. ( wynn macau ), each an indirect subsidiary of wynn macau, limited, formally accepted the terms and conditions of a draft land concession contract from the macau government for approximately 51 acres of land in the cotai area of macau. on may 2, 2012, the land concession contract was gazetted by the government of macau evidencing the final step in the granting of the land concession. the initial term of the land concession contract is 25 years from may 2, 2012, and it may be renewed with government approval for successive periods. the total land premium payable, including interest as required by the land concession contract, is $193.4 million. an initial payment of $62.5 million was paid in december 2011, with eight additional semi-annual payments of approximately $16.4 million each (including interest at 5%) which began in november 2012. as of december 31, 2013, the company has recorded this obligation and related asset with $29.3 million included as a current liability and $46.8 million included as a long-term liability. the company will also be required to make annual lease payments of $0.8 million during the resort construction period and annual lease payments of approximately $1.1 million once the development is completed. on the land subject to the land concession discussed above, we are currently constructing wynn palace, a full-scale integrated resort containing a 1,700-room hotel, performance lake, meeting space, casino, spa, retail offerings and food and beverage outlets. the total project budget, including construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, land costs and financing fees, is $4 billion. as of december 31, 2013, we have invested $703.7 million in the project. we continue to remain on schedule for an opening in the first half of 2016. on july 29, 2013, wynn macau and palo executed a guaranteed maximum price construction ( gmp ) contract with leighton contractors (asia) limited, acting as the general contractor. under the gmp contract, the general contractor is responsible for both the construction and design of the project. the general contractor is obligated to substantially complete the project in the first half of 2016 for a guaranteed maximum price of hk$20 billion (approximately $2.57 billion). an early completion bonus for achievement of substantial completion on or before january 25, 2016, will be paid to the general contractor if certain conditions are satisfied under the gmp contract. both the contract time and guaranteed maximum price are subject to further adjustment under certain specified conditions. the performance of the general contractor is backed by a full completion guarantee given by leighton holdings limited, the parent company of the general contractor, as well as a performance bond for 5% of the guaranteed maximum price. 4 table of contents our strategy we believe that steve wynn is the preeminent designer, developer and operator of destination casino resorts and has developed brand name status. mr. wynn involvement with our casino resorts provides a distinct advantage over other gaming enterprises. we integrate luxurious surroundings, distinctive entertainment and superior amenities, including convention facilities, entertainment, fine dining and premium retail offerings, to create resorts that appeal to our international customer base. our resorts are designed, built and operated to provide a premium experience for our guests. our business is dependent upon repeat visitation from our guests and we believe superior customer experience and service is the best marketing strategy to attract and retain our customers. our company heavily emphasizes human resources and staff training to ensure our employees are prepared to provide the luxury service that our guests expect. we market our resorts directly to gaming customers using database marketing techniques, as well as traditional incentives, including reduced room rates and complimentary meals and suites. our rewards system offers discounted and complimentary meals, lodging and entertainment for our guests. we also create general market awareness for our resorts through various media channels, including social media, television, radio, newspapers, magazines, the internet, direct mail and billboards. mr. wynn and his team bring significant experience in designing, developing and operating casino resorts. the senior executive team has an average of over 25 years of experience in the hotel and gaming industries. we also have an approximately 125-person design, development and construction subsidiary, the senior management of which has significant experience in all major construction disciplines. for the sixth consecutive year, wynn macau and the spa at wynn macau received the forbes five-star distinction, while encore at wynn macau and the spa at encore at wynn macau received the forbes five-star distinction for the second consecutive year. for the eighth consecutive year, the tower suites at wynn las vegas has received the forbes five-star distinction. the spa at wynn las vegas earned five-star recognition from forbes for the sixth year in a row. the tower suites at encore and the spa at encore are also recipients of the forbes five-star distinction. in addition, a number of restaurants in our resorts have earned star-distinction from forbes, with 38 stars in total for the current year. we continually seek out new opportunities for additional gaming or related businesses, in the united states, and worldwide. on november 11, 2013, we announced that our board had elected to withdraw the previously filed application for a gaming license in pennsylvania. we have made an application for a gaming license in massachusetts. the process is competitive and we do not expect to know the outcome until the end of the first half of 2014. proceeding with this project will require significant expenditure of company funds. in addition, we are exploring expansion opportunities in other international jurisdictions. market and competition the casino resort industry is highly competitive. both our macau operations and our las vegas operations compete with other high-quality casino resorts. resorts located on or near our properties compete on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, themes and size, among other factors. we seek to differentiate our macau and las vegas resorts from other major resorts by concentrating on our fundamental elements of superior design, atmosphere, personal service and luxury. macau macau is governed as a special administrative region of china and is located approximately 37 miles southwest of, and approximately one hour away via ferry from, hong kong. macau, which has been a casino destination for more than 50 years, consists principally of a peninsula on mainland china, with two neighboring islands, taipa and coloane, between which the cotai area is located. in 2002, the government of macau ended a 5 table of contents 40 year monopoly of the conduct of gaming operations by conducting a competitive process resulting in the issuance of concessions to conduct gaming operations to three concessionaires (including wynn macau), who in turn were permitted, subject to the approval of the government of macau, to each grant one subconcession, resulting in a total of six gaming concessionaires. in addition to wynn macau, each of sociedade de jogos de macau ( sjm ) and galaxy entertainment group limited are primary concessionaires and sands china ltd., melco crown and mgm china holdings limited operate under subconcessions. there is no limit to the number of casinos each concessionaire is permitted to operate, but each facility is subject to government approval. currently, there are 35 operating casinos in macau. we believe that macau is located in one of the world largest concentrations of potential gaming customers. according to macau statistical information, casinos in macau, the largest gaming market in the world, generated approximately $45.2 billion in gaming revenue in 2013, an 18.6% increase over the approximately $38.1 billion generated in 2012, and a significant increase over the approximately $2.9 billion generated in 2002. macau gaming market is primarily dependent on tourists. tourist arrivals in 2013 were 29.3 million, compared to 28.1 million in 2012. the macau market has also experienced tremendous growth in capacity in the last several years. as of december 31, 2013, there were 27,764 hotel rooms, 5,750 table games and 13,106 slot machines in macau, compared to 12,978 hotel rooms, 2,762 table games and 6,546 slot machines as of december 31, 2006. gaming customers traveling to macau have typically come from nearby destinations in asia including hong kong, mainland china, taiwan, south korea and malaysia. according to the macau statistics and census service monthly bulletin of statistics, approximately 90% of the tourists who visited macau in 2013 came from hong kong, mainland china and taiwan. travel to macau by citizens of mainland china requires a visa. chinese government officials have, on occasion, exercised their authority to adjust the visa policy and may do so in the future. wynn macau faces competition from casinos located throughout asia, as well as other major gaming centers located around the world, including singapore, australia, las vegas and cruise ships in asia that offer gaming. las vegas las vegas is the largest gaming market in the united states. during 2013, the economic environment in the gaming and hotel markets in las vegas continued to improve with increased levels of gaming revenue and hotel room demand. while these gaming and hotel statistics have increased from prior year levels, uncertainty still exists in the las vegas market. during 2013, the average daily room rate increased 2.4%, visitation remained relatively flat at 39.7 million visitors, and las vegas strip gaming revenues increased 4.8%, all as compared to the year ended december 31, 2012. during 2012, the average daily room rate increased 2.8%, visitation increased 2.1% to 39.7 million visitors, and las vegas strip gaming revenues increased 2.3%, all as compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. our las vegas operations are located on the las vegas strip and compete with other high-quality resorts and hotel casinos in las vegas. our las vegas operations also compete, to some extent, with other casino resorts in nevada and throughout the united states, and elsewhere in the world. the legalization of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. new or renovated casinos in asia, including singapore, the philippines, south korea and macau, could draw gaming customers away from las vegas. 6 table of contents geographic data geographic data are reported in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 17 segment information. additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . regulation and licensing macau general. as a casino concessionaire, wynn macau, an indirect 72.3% owned subsidiary of the company, is subject to the regulatory control of the government of macau. the government has adopted laws and administrative regulations governing the operation of casinos in macau. only concessionaires or subconcessionaires are permitted to operate casinos. subconcessions may be awarded subject to the approval of the macau government and each concessionaire has issued one subconcession. each concessionaire was required to enter into a concession agreement with the macau government which, together with the law and administrative regulations, form the framework for the regulation of the activities of the concessionaire. under the law and administrative regulations, concessionaires are subject to suitability requirements relating to background, associations and reputation, as are stockholders of 5% or more of a concessionaire equity securities, officers, directors and key employees. the same requirements apply to any entity engaged by a concessionaire to manage casino operations. concessionaires are required to satisfy minimum capitalization requirements, demonstrate and maintain adequate financial capacity to operate the concession and submit to continuous monitoring of their casino operations by the macau government. concessionaires also are subject to periodic financial reporting requirements and reporting obligations with respect to, among other things, certain contracts, financing activities and transactions with directors, financiers and key employees. transfers or the encumbering of interests in concessionaires must be reported to the macau government and are ineffective without government approval. each concessionaire is required to engage an executive director who must be a permanent resident of macau and the holder of at least 10% of the capital stock of the concessionaire. the appointment of the executive director and of any successor is ineffective without the approval of the macau government. all contracts placing the management of a concessionaire casino operations with a third party also are ineffective without the approval of the macau government. concessionaires are subject to a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenue, and must also make an annual contribution of up to 4% of gross gaming revenue for the promotion of public interests, social security, infrastructure and tourism. concessionaires are obligated to withhold applicable taxes, according to the rate in effect as set by the government, from any commissions paid to games promoters. the withholding rate may be adjusted from time to time. a games promoter, also known as a junket representative, is a person who, for the purpose of promoting casino gaming activity, arranges customer transportation and accommodations, and provides credit in their sole discretion, food and beverage services and entertainment in exchange for commissions or other compensation from a concessionaire. macau law provides that games promoters must be licensed by the macau government in order to do business with and receive compensation from concessionaires. for a license to be obtained, direct and indirect owners of 5% or more of a games promoter (regardless of its corporate form or sole proprietor status), its directors and its key employees must be found suitable. applicants are required to pay the cost of license investigations, and are required to maintain suitability standards during the period of licensure. the term of a games promoters license is one calendar year, and licenses can be renewed for additional periods upon the submission of renewal applications. natural person junket representative licensees are subject to a suitability verification process every three years and business entity licensees are subject to the same requirement every six years. the gaming inspection and coordination bureau ( dicj ) implemented certain instructions in 2009, 7 table of contents which have the force of law, relating to commissions paid to, and by, games promoters. such instructions also impose certain financial reporting and audit requirements on games promoters. under macau law, licensed games promoters must identify outside contractors who assist them in their promotion activities. these contractors are subject to approval of the macau government. changes in the management structure of business entity games promoters licensees must be reported to the macau government and any transfer or the encumbering of interests in such licensees is ineffective without prior government approval. to conduct gaming promotion activities licensees must be registered with one or more concessionaires and must have written contracts with such concessionaires, copies of which must be submitted to the macau government. macau law further provides that concessionaires are jointly responsible with their games promoters for the activities of such representatives and their directors and contractors in the concessionaires casinos, and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. concessionaires must submit annual lists of their games promoters, and must update such lists on a quarterly basis. the macau government may designate a maximum number of games promoters and specify the number of games promoters a concessionaire is permitted to engage. concessionaires are subject to periodic reporting requirements with respect to commissions paid to their games promoters representatives and are required to oversee their activities and report instances of unlawful activity. the government of macau may assume temporary custody and control over the operation of a concession in certain circumstances. during any such period, the costs of operations must be borne by the concessionaire. the government of macau also may redeem a concession starting at an established date after the entering into effect of a concession. the government of macau may also terminate a concession for cause, including, without limitation, failure of the concessionaire to fulfill its obligations under law or the concession contract. concession agreement. the concession agreement between wynn macau and the macau government required wynn macau to construct and operate one or more casino gaming properties in macau, including, at a minimum, one full-service casino resort by the end of december 2006, and to invest not less than a total of 4 billion macau patacas (approximately $500 million) in macau-related projects by june 2009. these obligations were satisfied upon the opening of wynn macau in 2006. wynn macau was also obligated to obtain, and did obtain, a 700 million macau pataca (approximately $87 million) bank guarantee from banco national ultramarino, s.a. ( bnu ) that was effective until march 31, 2007. the amount of this guarantee was reduced to 300 million macau patacas (approximately $37 million) for the period from april 1, 2007 until 180 days after the end of the term of the concession agreement. this guarantee, which is for the benefit of the macau government, assures wynn macau performance under the casino concession agreement, including the payment of premiums, fines and indemnity for any material failure to perform the concession agreement. wynn macau is obligated, upon demand by bnu, to promptly repay any claim made on the guarantee by the macau government. bnu is currently paid an annual fee by wynn macau for the guarantee of approximately 5.2 million patacas (approximately $0.7 million). the government of macau may redeem the concession beginning on june 24, 2017, and in such event wynn macau will be entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession if wynn macau fails to fulfill its fundamental obligations under the concession agreement. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; abandons or suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; 8 table of contents defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or, repeatedly and seriously violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement for one of the reasons stated above, wynn macau will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to the gaming operations of wynn macau will be transferred to the government without compensation. in addition, the government of macau may, in the public interest, unilaterally terminate the concession at any time, in which case wynn macau would be entitled to reasonable compensation. nevada introduction . the ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the state of nevada are subject to the nevada gaming control act and the regulations made under the act, as well as to various local ordinances. our las vegas operations are subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the nevada gaming commission, the nevada state gaming control board and the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which we refer to herein collectively as the nevada gaming authorities. policy concerns of gaming laws. the laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the nevada gaming authorities are based upon declarations of public policy. such public policy concerns include, among other things: preventing unsavory or unsuitable persons from being directly or indirectly involved with gaming at any time or in any capacity; establishing and maintaining responsible accounting practices and procedures; maintaining effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and safeguarding assets and revenue, providing reliable recordkeeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the nevada gaming authorities; preventing cheating and fraudulent practices; and providing a source of state and local revenue through taxation and licensing fees. changes in applicable laws, regulations and procedures could have significant negative effects on our las vegas gaming operations and our financial condition and results of operations. owner and operator licensing requirements. our subsidiary, wynn las vegas, llc, the owner and operator of our las vegas operations, has been approved by the nevada gaming authorities as a limited liability company licensee, referred to as a company licensee, which includes approval to conduct casino gaming operations, including a race book and sports pool and pari-mutuel wagering. these gaming licenses are not transferable. company registration requirements. wynn resorts was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn resorts holdings, llc ( wynn resorts holdings ), a wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts, and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as a publicly traded corporation, referred to as a registered company, for the purposes of the nevada gaming control act. wynn resorts holdings was found suitable by the nevada gaming commission to own the equity interests of wynn 9 table of contents las vegas, llc and to be registered by the nevada gaming commission as an intermediary company. in addition to being licensed, wynn las vegas, llc, as an issuer of debt securities registered with the sec, also qualified as a registered company. wynn las vegas capital corp., a co-issuer of the debt securities, was not required to be registered or licensed, but may be required to be found suitable as a lender or financing source. periodically, we are required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to the nevada gaming commission and provide any other information that the nevada gaming commission may require. substantially all of our material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to, and/or approved by, the nevada gaming commission. individual licensing requirements . no person may become a more than 5% stockholder or member of, or receive any percentage of the profits of, an intermediary company or company licensee without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the nevada gaming authorities. the nevada gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us to determine whether the individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. certain of our officers, directors and key employees have been or may be required to file applications with the nevada gaming authorities and are or may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the nevada gaming authorities. all applications required as of the date of this report have been filed. however, the nevada gaming authorities may require additional applications and may also deny an application for licensing for any reason which they deem appropriate. a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. an applicant for licensing or an applicant for a finding of suitability must pay or must cause to be paid all the costs of the investigation. changes in licensed positions must be reported to the nevada gaming authorities and, in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensing, the nevada gaming authorities have the jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. if the nevada gaming authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a relationship with us, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. in addition, the nevada gaming commission may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in nevada. redemption of securities owned by an unsuitable person. the company articles of incorporation provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company or any affiliate application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price will be the amount, if any, required by the gaming authority or, if the gaming authority does not determine the price, the sum deemed by the board of directors to be the fair value of the securities to be redeemed. if wynn resorts determines the redemption price, the redemption price will be capped at the closing price of the shares on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed on the trading day before the redemption notice is given. if the shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the redemption price will be capped at the closing sale price of the shares as quoted on the nasdaq global select market or if the closing price is not reported, the mean between the bid and ask prices, as quoted by any other generally recognized reporting system. wynn resorts right of redemption is not exclusive of any other rights that it may have or later acquire under any agreement, its bylaws or otherwise. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as the board of directors of wynn resorts elects, and as set forth in the company articles of incorporation. on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts gaming compliance committee concluded an investigation after receiving an independent report by freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp (the freeh report ) detailing a pattern of 10 table of contents misconduct by aruze usa, inc. (at the time a stockholder of wynn resorts), universal entertainment corporation, aruze usa, inc. parent company, and kazuo okada, (the majority shareholder of universal entertainment corporation and a former member of the board of directors of wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited) (collectively, the okada parties ). based on the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that the okada parties are unsuitable persons under article vii of the company articles of incorporation. the board of directors was unanimous (other than mr. okada) in its determination. after authorizing the redemption of the aruze shares, the board of directors took certain actions to protect the company and its operations from any influence of an unsuitable person, including placing limitations on the provision of certain operating information to unsuitable persons and formation of an executive committee of the board to manage the business and affairs of the company during the period between each annual meeting. the charter of the executive committee provides that unsuitable persons are not permitted to serve on the committee. all members of the board, other than mr. okada, were appointed to the executive committee on february 18, 2012. the board of directors also requested that mr. okada resign as a director of wynn resorts (under nevada corporation law, a board of directors does not have the power to remove a director) and recommended that mr. okada be removed as a member of the board of directors of wynn macau, limited. in addition, on february 18, 2012, mr. okada was removed from the board of directors of wynn las vegas capital corp., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts. on february 24, 2012, mr. okada was removed from the board of directors of wynn macau, limited and on february 22, 2013, he was removed from the board of directors of wynn resorts by a stockholder vote in which 99.6% of the over 86 million shares voted were cast in favor of removal. additionally, mr. okada resigned from the board of directors of wynn resorts on february 21, 2013. although the company has retained the structure of the executive committee, the board has resumed its past role in managing the business and affairs of the company. based on the board of directors finding of unsuitability, on february 18, 2012, wynn resorts redeemed and cancelled aruze usa, inc. 24,549,222 shares of wynn resorts common stock. the company engaged an independent financial advisor to assist in the fair value calculation and concluded that a discount to the then current trading price was appropriate because of, among other things, restrictions on most of the shares held by aruze usa, inc. under the terms of the stockholders agreement (as defined below). pursuant to its articles of incorporation, wynn resorts issued the redemption price promissory note (the redemption note ) to aruze usa, inc. in redemption of the shares. the redemption note has a principal amount of $1.94 billion, matures on february 18, 2022 and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum, payable annually in arrears on each anniversary of the date of the redemption note. the company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, at any time and from time to time, and without penalty or premium, prepay the whole or any portion of the principal or interest due under the redemption note. in no instance shall any payment obligation under the redemption note be accelerated except in the sole and absolute discretion of wynn resorts or as specifically mandated by law. the indebtedness evidenced by the redemption note is and shall be subordinated in right of payment, to the extent and in the manner provided in the redemption note, to the prior payment in full of all existing and future obligations of wynn resorts or any of its affiliates in respect of indebtedness for borrowed money of any kind or nature. the okada parties have challenged the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares and the company is currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. see item 1a risk factors , item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies . the outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. the company claims and the okada parties counterclaims are in a preliminary stage and management has determined that based on proceedings to date, it is currently unable to determine the probability of the outcome of this matter or the range of reasonably possible loss, if any. an adverse judgment or settlement involving payment of a material amount could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 11 table of contents consequences of violating gaming laws. if the nevada gaming commission determines that we have violated the nevada gaming control act or any of its regulations, it could limit, condition, suspend or revoke our registrations and gaming license. in addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the nevada gaming control act, or of the regulations of the nevada gaming commission, at the discretion of the nevada gaming commission. further, the nevada gaming commission could appoint a supervisor to operate our las vegas operations and, under specified circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the premises) could be forfeited to the state of nevada. limitation, conditioning or suspension of any of our gaming licenses and the appointment of a supervisor could, and revocation of any gaming license would, have a significant negative effect on our gaming operations. requirements for voting or nonvoting securities holders. regardless of the number of shares held, any beneficial owner of wynn resorts voting or nonvoting securities may be required to file an application, be investigated and have that person suitability as a beneficial owner of voting securities determined if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that the ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the beneficial owner of the voting or nonvoting securities of wynn resorts who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of its beneficial owners. the applicant must pay all costs of the investigation incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in conducting any investigation. the nevada gaming control act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the voting securities of a registered company to report the acquisition to the nevada gaming commission. the nevada gaming control act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of a registered company voting securities to apply to the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board mails the written notice requiring such filing. however, an institutional investor, as defined in the nevada gaming control act, which beneficially owns more than 10% but not more than 11% of a registered company voting securities as a result of a stock repurchase by the registered company may not be required to file such an application. further, an institutional investor which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of a registered company voting securities may apply to the nevada gaming commission for a waiver of a finding of suitability if the institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes only. an institutional investor that has obtained a waiver may hold more than 25% but not more than 29% of a registered company voting securities and maintain its waiver where the additional ownership results from a stock repurchase by the registered company. an institutional investor will not be deemed to hold voting securities for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of the board of directors of the registered company, a change in the corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the registered company, or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the nevada gaming commission finds to be inconsistent with holding the registered company voting securities for investment purposes only. activities which are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding voting securities for investment purposes only include: voting on all matters voted on by stockholders or interest holders; making financial and other inquiries of management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational purposes and not to cause a change in management, policies or operations; and, other activities that the nevada gaming commission may determine to be consistent with such investment intent. the articles of incorporation of wynn resorts include provisions intended to assist its implementation of the above restrictions. wynn resorts is required to maintain a current stock ledger in nevada which may be examined by the nevada gaming authorities at any time. if any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record 12 table of contents holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the nevada gaming authorities. a failure to make the disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. we are required to provide maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner of any of wynn resorts voting securities. the nevada gaming commission has the power to require the stock certificates of any registered company to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to the nevada gaming control act. the certificates representing shares of wynn resorts common stock note that the shares are subject to a right of redemption and other restrictions set forth in wynn resorts articles of incorporation and bylaws and that the shares are, or may become, subject to restrictions imposed by applicable gaming laws. consequences of being found unsuitable. any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the nevada gaming commission or by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board, or who refuses or fails to pay the investigative costs incurred by the nevada gaming authorities in connection with the investigation of its application, may be found unsuitable. the same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. any person found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of any voting security or debt security of a registered company beyond the period of time as may be prescribed by the nevada gaming commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. we will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to hold an equity interest or to have any other relationship with us, we: pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right held by that person relating to wynn resorts; pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or, fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require the unsuitable person to relinquish such person voting securities including, if necessary, the immediate purchase of the voting securities for cash at fair market value. gaming laws relating to debt securities ownership. the nevada gaming commission may, in its discretion, require the owner of any debt or similar securities of a registered company, to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt or other security of the registered company if the nevada gaming commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. if the nevada gaming commission decides that a person is unsuitable to own the security, then under the nevada gaming control act, the registered company can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals if, without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission, it: pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest or any distribution whatsoever; recognizes any voting right by the unsuitable person in connection with the securities; pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or, makes any payment to the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange, liquidation or similar transaction. approval of public offerings. we may not make a public offering without the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission if the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for those purposes or for similar transactions. on march 21, 2013, the nevada gaming commission granted us and wynn las vegas, llc prior approval, subject to certain conditions, to make public offerings for a period of three years (the shelf approval ). the shelf approval also applies to any affiliated company wholly owned by us which is a publicly traded corporation or would thereby become a publicly traded corporation pursuant to a public offering. the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop 13 table of contents order by the chairman of the nevada state gaming control board. the shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by any of the nevada gaming authorities as to the accuracy or adequacy of the offering memorandum or the investment merits of the securities. any representation to the contrary is unlawful. approval of changes in control. a registered company must obtain the prior approval of the nevada gaming commission with respect to a change in control through merger; consolidation; stock or asset acquisitions; management or consulting agreements; or any act or conduct by a person by which the person obtains control of the registered company. entities seeking to acquire control of a registered company must satisfy the nevada state gaming control board and nevada gaming commission with respect to a variety of stringent standards before assuming control of the registered company. the nevada gaming commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process relating to the transaction. approval of defensive tactics. the nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting nevada corporate gaming licensees or affecting registered companies that are affiliated with the operations of nevada gaming licensees may be harmful to stable and productive corporate gaming. the nevada gaming commission has established a regulatory scheme to reduce the potential adverse effects of these business practices upon nevada gaming industry and to further nevada policy in order to: assure the financial stability of corporate gaming licensees and their affiliated companies; preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and, promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. approvals may be required from the nevada gaming commission before a registered company can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above its current market price and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. the nevada gaming control act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by a registered company board of directors in response to a tender offer made directly to its stockholders for the purpose of acquiring control. fees and taxes. license fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the state of nevada and to the counties and cities in which the licensed subsidiaries respective operations are conducted. depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: a percentage of the gross revenue received; the number of gaming devices operated; or, the number of table games operated. a live entertainment tax also is imposed on admission charges and sales of food, beverages and merchandise where live entertainment is furnished. foreign gaming investigations. any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered in nevada, or is under common control with such persons (collectively, licensees ), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside of nevada, is required to deposit with the nevada state gaming control board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of investigation of the nevada state gaming control board of the licensee or registrant participation in such foreign gaming. the revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the nevada gaming 14 table of contents commission. licensees and registrants are required to comply with the foreign gaming reporting requirements imposed by the nevada gaming control act. a licensee or registrant is also subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if it: knowingly violates any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming operation; fails to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engages in any activity or enters into any association that is unsuitable because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect, discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to the gaming policies of nevada; engages in activities or enters into associations that are harmful to the state of nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees; or, employs, contracts with or associates with a person in the foreign operation who has been denied a license or finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability. licenses for conduct of gaming and sale of alcoholic beverages. the conduct of gaming activities and the service and sale of alcoholic beverages at wynn las vegas are subject to licensing, control and regulation by the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board, which has granted wynn las vegas, llc licenses for such purposes. in addition to approving wynn las vegas, llc, the clark county liquor and gaming licensing board has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming license. clark county gaming and liquor licenses are not transferable. the county has full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license. any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a substantial negative impact upon our operations. other regulations in addition to gaming regulations, we are subject to extensive local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. these include, but are not limited to, laws and regulations relating to alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employment and immigration, currency and other transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, marketing and advertising, lending, debt collection, privacy, telemarketing, money laundering, laws and regulations administered by the office of foreign assets control, and anti-bribery laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act. such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. any material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our business and operating results. seasonality we may experience fluctuations in revenues and cash flows from month to month, however, we do not believe that our business is materially impacted by seasonality. employees as of december 31, 2013, we had a total of approximately 16,500 full-time equivalent employees (including approximately 7,000 in macau and 9,500 in las vegas). we entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the culinary and bartenders union local covering approximately 5,575 employees at our las vegas operations that will expire in 2015. we also entered into a ten year collective bargaining agreement with the transportation workers union in november 2010, which covers the table games dealers at wynn las vegas. certain other unions may seek to organize the workers of our las vegas operations. 15 table of contents intellectual property among our most important marks are our trademarks and service marks that use the name wynn. wynn resorts has registered with the u.s. patent and trademark office ( pto ) a variety of the wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, encore and wynn macau. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. wynn resorts has been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name based upon factors including mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. we have also filed applications with various foreign patent and trademark registries, including in macau, china, singapore, hong kong, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include many of the same marks filed with the united states pto and include wynn macau, wynn las vegas, wynn palace and encore. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks. we recognize that our intellectual property assets, including the word and logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. as a result, and in connection with expansion of our resorts and gaming activities outside the united states, we have undertaken a program to register our trademarks and other intellectual property rights in relevant jurisdictions. we have retained counsel and intend to take all steps necessary to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world. on august 6, 2004, we entered into agreements with mr. wynn that confirm and clarify our rights to use the wynn name and mr. wynn persona in connection with our casino resorts. under a surname rights agreement, mr. wynn has acknowledged our exclusive, fully paid-up, perpetual, worldwide right to use, and to own and register trademarks and service marks incorporating, the wynn name for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the right to sublicense the name and marks to our affiliates. under a rights of publicity license, mr. wynn has granted us the exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide right to use his full name, persona and related rights of publicity for casino resorts and related businesses, together with the ability to sublicense the persona and publicity rights to our affiliates, until october 24, 2017. we have also registered various domain names including, but not limited to, www.wynnlasvegas.com , www.wynnmacau.com , www.wynnmacaulimited.com , www.encorelasvegas.com and www.wynnresorts.com , with various domain registrars around the world. our domain registrations extend to various foreign countries such as .com.cn and .com.hk. we pursue domain related infringement on a case by case basis depending on the infringing domain in question. the information found on these websites is not a part of this annual report on form 10-k or any other report we file or furnish to the sec. forward-looking statements we make forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k based upon the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. forward-looking statements 16 table of contents include, but are not limited to, information about our business strategy, development activities, competition and possible or assumed future results of operations, throughout this report and are often preceded by, followed by or include the words may, will, should, would, could, believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, plan, continue or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in these forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties in item 1a risk factors and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the sec, such as: our dependence on stephen a. wynn and existing management; regulatory or enforcement actions and probity investigations; potential violations of law by mr. kazuo okada, a former shareholder of ours; changes in the valuation of the promissory note we issued in connection with the redemption of mr. okada shares; any violations by us of the foreign corrupt practices act or federal anti-money laundering laws; pending or future legal proceedings; decreases in levels of travel, leisure and consumer spending; fluctuations in occupancy rates and average daily room rates; competition in the casino/hotel and resort industries and actions taken by our competitors; uncertainties over the development and success of new gaming and resort properties; new development and construction activities of competitors; our dependence on a limited number of resorts and locations for all of our cash flow; adverse tourism and trends reflecting current domestic and international economic conditions; general global macroeconomic conditions; doing business in foreign locations such as macau; changes in gaming laws or regulations (including the legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions); the effect of environmental regulation on management and construction of projects; our current and future insurance coverage levels; our subsidiaries ability to pay us dividends and distributions; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights; our relationships with macau games promoters; our ability to maintain our customer relationships and collect and enforce gaming debts; the maintenance of our concession from the macau government; changes in exchange rates; cybersecurity risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security; changes in u.s. laws regarding healthcare; changes in federal, foreign, or state tax laws or the administration of such laws; 17 table of contents approvals under applicable jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations); volatility and weakness in world-wide credit and financial markets and from governmental intervention in the financial markets; conditions precedent to funding under our credit facilities; continued compliance with all provisions in our credit agreements; leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations in interest rates); restrictions or conditions on visitation by citizens of mainland china to macau; the impact that an outbreak of an infectious disease or the impact of extreme weather patterns or a natural disaster may have on the travel and leisure industry; and the consequences of military conflicts and any future security alerts and/or terrorist attacks. further information on potential factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations and business are included in this report and our other filings with the sec. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which are based only on information available to us at the time this statement is made. we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, regarding matters which could have an adverse effect, including a material one, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to our business the loss of stephen a. wynn could significantly harm our business. our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and reputation of stephen a. wynn, the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and one of the principal stockholders of wynn resorts. mr. wynn employment agreement expires in october 2020. however, we cannot assure you that mr. wynn will remain with wynn resorts, limited. if we lose the services of mr. wynn, or if he is unable to devote sufficient attention to our operations for any other reason, our business may be significantly impaired. visitation to macau may decline due to economic disruptions in mainland china as well as increased restrictions on visitations to macau from citizens of mainland china. a significant number of our gaming customers at wynn macau come from mainland china. any economic disruption or contraction in china could disrupt the number of patrons visiting our property or the amount they may be willing to spend. in addition, any travel restrictions imposed by china on its citizens could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland china to our property. it is not known when, or if, policies similar to those implemented in 2009 restricting visitation by mainland chinese citizens to macau and hong kong, will be put in place and travel policies may be adjusted, without notice, in the future. the resulting decreased visitation would negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. 18 table of contents potential violations of law by mr. okada (former director and formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and his affiliates could have adverse consequences to the company. on february 18, 2012, the board of directors of wynn resorts received a report from freeh, sporkin &amp; sullivan, llp detailing numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ) by kazuo okada (formerly the largest beneficial owner of our shares) and certain of his affiliates. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies. the company has provided the freeh report to applicable regulators and has been cooperating with related investigations of such regulators. the conduct of mr. okada and his affiliates and the outcome of any resulting regulatory findings could have adverse consequences to the company. a finding by regulatory authorities that mr. okada violated the fcpa on company property and/or otherwise involved the company in criminal or civil violations could result in actions by regulatory authorities against the company. relatedly, regulators have and may pursue separate investigations into the company compliance with applicable laws in connection with the okada matter, as discussed in item 3 legal proceedings . while the company believes that it is in full compliance with all applicable laws, any such investigations could result in actions by regulators against the company, which could negatively affect the company financial condition or results of operations. mr. okada and his affiliates have challenged the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares. an adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the related litigation could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business. on february 18, 2012, after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and mr. kazuo okada (collectively, the okada parties ) were unsuitable within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze usa, inc. shares of wynn resorts common stock. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies . on february 19, 2012, wynn resorts filed a complaint in the eighth judicial district court, clark county, nevada against the okada parties (as amended, the complaint ), alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and related claims (the redemption action ) arising from the activities addressed in the freeh report. the company is seeking compensatory and special damages as well as a declaration that it acted lawfully and in full compliance with its articles of incorporation, bylaws and other governing documents in redeeming and cancelling the shares of aruze, usa, inc. on march 12, 2012, the okada parties filed an answer denying the claims and a counterclaim (as amended, the counterclaim ) against the company, each of the members of the company board of directors (other than mr. okada) and wynn resorts general counsel (collectively, the wynn parties ), seeking, among other things a declaration that the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares was void, an injunction restoring aruze usa, inc. share ownership, damages in an unspecified amount and rescission of the amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of january 6, 2010, by and among aruze usa, inc., stephen a. wynn, and elaine wynn (the stockholders agreement ). in connection with the redemption action and counterclaim (1) various okada parties filed a complaint in the tokyo district court against the company, all members of the board (other than mr. okada) and the company general counsel alleging that the press release issued by the company in connection with the redemption action has damaged their social evaluation and credibility and seeking damages and legal fees, (2) four federal derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors, (3) two state derivative actions were commenced against the company and all members of its board of directors and (4) regulatory inquiries and investigations were initiated against the company. see item 3 legal proceedings , for a full description of these matters and status as of the date of this report. the company is vigorously pursuing its claims against the okada parties, and together with the other counter-defendants, vigorously defending against the counterclaims and other actions asserted against them. however, as with all litigation, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties, including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. 19 table of contents change in valuation of our redemption price promissory note could have a negative impact on our results of operations. in connection with the redemption of the shares previously held by aruze usa, inc., we recorded the fair value of the redemption note of approximately $1.94 billion in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. we utilized an independent third party valuation to assist in the determination of this fair value. in determining this fair value, we estimated the redemption note present value using discounted cash flows with a probability weighted expected return for redemption assumptions and a discount rate which included time value and non-performance risk adjustments commensurate with risk of the redemption note. considerations for the redemption assumptions included the stated maturity of the redemption note, uncertainty of the related cash flows as well as potential effects of the following: uncertainties surrounding the potential outcome and timing of pending litigation with the okada parties (see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies ); the outcome of on-going investigations of aruze usa, inc. by the united states attorney office, the u.s. department of justice and by the nevada gaming control board; and other potential legal and regulatory actions. in addition, in the furtherance of various future business objectives, we considered our ability, at our sole option, to prepay the redemption note at any time in accordance with its terms without penalty. accordingly, we reasonably determined that the estimated life of the redemption note could be less than the contractual life of the redemption note. in determination of the appropriate discount rate to be used in the estimated present value, the redemption note subordinated position relative to all other debt in our capital structure and credit ratings associated our traded debt were considered. observable inputs for the risk free rate based on federal reserve rates for u.s. treasury securities and credit risk spread based on a yield curve index of similarly rated debt was used. as a result of this analysis, we concluded the redemption notes stated rate of 2% approximated a market rate. a change in any of the assumptions discussed above could result in a change in the fair value of this redemption note and significantly impact our results of operations. ongoing litigation and other disputes with mr. okada and certain of his affiliates could distract management and result in negative publicity and additional scrutiny of regulators. there has been widespread publicity of the findings in the freeh report of prima facie violations of law by mr. okada and his affiliates, the board unsuitability finding, the redemption of shares and related litigation. the actions, litigation, and publicity could reduce demand for shares of wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited and thereby have a negative impact on the trading prices of their respective shares. the disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly a negative impact on, the company gaming licenses, and possibly have a negative impact on the company ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. any violation of the foreign corrupt practices act or applicable anti-money laundering laws or regulations could have a negative impact on us. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the united states, which exposes the company to complex foreign and u.s. regulations inherent in doing business cross-border and in each of the countries in which it transacts business. we also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our resorts could have a negative effect on our results of operations. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations also increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. 20 table of contents we are subject to regulations imposed by the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit u.s. companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. violations of the fcpa and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties and the sec and u.s. department of justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the fcpa. internal control policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs that we have implemented to deter prohibited practices may not be effective in prohibiting our directors, employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing our policies and the law. if our directors, employees or agents fail to comply with applicable laws or company policies governing our international operations, the company may face investigations, prosecutions and other legal proceedings and actions which could result in civil penalties, administrative remedies and criminal sanctions. any future government investigations, prosecutions or other legal proceedings or actions, however, could have a negative impact on us. kazuo okada, one of our former directors, failed to comply with internal training in these matters and failed to return to the company an executed acknowledgment agreeing to comply with the company code of business conduct and ethics. for additional information on the freeh report, which detailed numerous instances of conduct constituting prima facie violations of the fcpa by mr. okada and certain of his affiliates, and the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares, see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies. on february 19, 2012, the company filed a complaint in nevada state court against mr. okada and other entities alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged violations of the fcpa. for a detailed description of the legal proceedings between the company and mr. okada and his affiliates, see item 3 legal proceedings. our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities that we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy which adversely impact discretionary spending on leisure activities. changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, high unemployment, the housing foreclosure crisis, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, an economic recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could reduce customer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, and may have a significant negative impact on our operating results. our casino, hotel, convention and other facilities face intense competition, which may increase in the future. the casino/hotel industry is highly competitive. resorts located on or near the las vegas strip compete with other las vegas strip hotels and with other hotel casinos in las vegas on the basis of overall atmosphere, range of amenities, level of service, price, location, entertainment, theme and size, among other factors. wynn las vegas also competes with other hotel/casino facilities in other cities. the proliferation of gaming activities in other areas could significantly harm our business as well. in particular, the legalization or expansion of casino gaming in or near metropolitan areas from which we attract customers could have a negative effect on our business. in addition, new or renovated casinos in macau or elsewhere in asia could draw asian gaming customers away from our las vegas operations. our macau operations also face intense competition. currently there are 35 operating casinos in macau. we hold a concession under one of only three gaming concessions and three subconcessions authorized by the macau government to operate casinos in macau. the macau government has had the ability to grant additional gaming 21 table of contents concessions since april 2009. if the macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in macau through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. current concessionaries and subconcessionaires can open additional facilities. our macau resort complex also faces competition from casinos located in other areas of asia, including the marina bay sands and resorts world sentosa resorts operating in singapore, genting highlands resort, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of kuala lumpur, malaysia, and casinos in the philippines. we also encounter competition from other major gaming centers located around the world, including australia and las vegas, cruise ships in asia that offer gaming, and other casinos throughout asia. further, if current efforts to legalize gaming in other asian countries are successful, our wynn macau resort will face additional regional competition. we are entirely dependent on a limited number of resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. we are entirely dependent upon our macau operations and las vegas operations for all of our operating cash flow. as a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. the risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following: local economic and competitive conditions; changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations; natural and other disasters; a decline in the number of visitors to las vegas or macau; a decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts; and the outbreak of infectious diseases. any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt. development costs of wynn palace may be higher than expected. the total project budget, including construction costs, capitalized interest, pre-opening expenses, land costs and financing fees, is $4 billion. these projected development costs reflect our best estimates and the actual development costs may be higher than expected. owners contingencies that have been set aside to cover cost overruns may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such overruns. if these contingencies are not sufficient to cover these costs, we may not have the funds required to pay the excess costs and wynn palace may not be completed. failure to complete wynn palace would negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to pay our debt. there are significant risks associated with the construction of wynn palace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from this planned facility. major construction projects of the scope and scale of wynn palace entail significant risks, including: shortages of materials or skilled labor; unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems; 22 table of contents work stoppages; delays or interference from severe weather or natural disasters; unanticipated cost increases; and unavailability of construction equipment. construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening or otherwise affect the design and features of wynn palace. we anticipate that only some of the subcontractors engaged for these projects will post bonds guaranteeing timely completion of the subcontractor work and payment for all of that subcontractor labor and materials. these bonds may not be adequate to ensure completion of the work. our wynn palace facility may not commence operations on schedule and construction costs for this project may exceed budgeted amounts. failure to complete this project on schedule or within budget may have a significant negative effect on us and on our ability to make payments on our debt. our business relies on high-end, international customers. we often extend credit, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players or credit play may decrease. general. a significant portion of our table games revenue at our resorts is attributable to the play of a limited number of international customers. the loss or a reduction in the play of the most significant of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cashflows. a downturn in economic conditions in the countries in which these customers reside could cause a further reduction in the frequency of visits by and revenue generated from these customers. we conduct our gaming activities on a credit as well as a cash basis. this credit is unsecured. we will extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources, in the opinion of management, warrant such an extension. the collectability of receivables from international customers could be negatively affected by future business or economic trends or by significant events in the countries in which these customers reside. in addition, premium gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. wynn las vegas. while gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a marker, are enforceable under the current laws of nevada, and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states of the united states under the full faith and credit clause of the united states constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the united states of foreign debtors may be used to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from u.s. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. we cannot assure you that we will be able to collect the full amount of gaming debts owed to us, even in jurisdictions that enforce them. recent changes in economic conditions may make it more difficult to assess creditworthiness and more difficult to collect the full amount of any gaming debt owed to us. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. wynn macau. although the law in macau permits casino operators to extend credit to gaming customers, wynn macau may not be able to collect all of its gaming receivables from its credit players. we expect that wynn macau will be able to enforce these obligations only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including 23 table of contents macau. to the extent our gaming customers are visitors from other jurisdictions, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect all of our gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. currently, the gaming tax in macau is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue. however, unlike nevada, the gross gaming revenue calculation in macau does not include deductions for uncollectible gaming debts. as a result, if we extend credit to our customers in macau and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we remain obligated to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers. we are subject to extensive state and local regulation and licensing and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations. the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations and authorities could have a negative effect on our business. the operations of our resorts are contingent upon our obtaining and maintaining all necessary licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations in the jurisdictions in which our resorts are located. the laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. the nevada gaming commission may require the holder of any debt or securities we or wynn las vegas issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own wynn resorts securities if it has reason to believe that the security ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the state of nevada. the company articles of incorporation also provide that, to the extent required by the gaming authority making the determination of unsuitability or to the extent the board of directors determines, in its sole discretion, that a person is likely to jeopardize the company or any affiliate application for, receipt of, approval for, right to the use of, or entitlement to, any gaming license, shares of wynn resorts capital stock that are owned or controlled by an unsuitable person or its affiliates are subject to redemption by wynn resorts. the redemption price may be paid in cash, by promissory note, or both, as required, and pursuant to the terms established by, the applicable gaming authority and, if not, as wynn resorts elects. on february 18, 2012, the board of directors of wynn resorts received the freeh report. see item 3 legal proceedings , and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies. after receiving the freeh report, the board of directors of wynn resorts determined that aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and mr. okada were unsuitable within the meaning of article vii of wynn resorts articles of incorporation and redeemed all of aruze usa, inc. shares of wynn resorts common stock. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies . nevada regulatory authorities also have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approvals, approve changes in our operations and levy fines or require forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. complying with gaming laws, regulations and license requirements is costly. any change in the nevada laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures and forfeit assets, and would negatively affect our gaming operations. wynn macau operations are subject to unique risks. failure to adhere to the regulatory and gaming environment in macau could result in the revocation of wynn macau concession or otherwise negatively affect its operations in macau. moreover, we are subject to the risk that u.s. regulators could determine that macau gaming regulatory framework has not developed in a way that would permit us to conduct operations in macau in a manner consistent with the way in which we intend, or the nevada gaming authorities require us, to conduct our operations in the united states. 24 table of contents our information technology and other systems are subject to cyber security risk including misappropriation of customer information or other breaches of information security. we rely on information technology and other systems to maintain and transmit customer financial information, credit card settlements, credit card funds transmissions, mailing lists and reservations information. the systems and processes we have implemented to protect customers, employees and company information are subject to the ever-changing risk of compromised security. these risks include cyber and physical security breaches, system failure, computer viruses, and negligent or intentional misuse by customers, company employees, or employees of third party vendors. the steps we take to deter and mitigate these risks may not be successful and our insurance coverage for protecting against cybersecurity risks may not be sufficient. any disruption, compromise or loss of data or systems that results from a cybersecurity attack or breach could materially adversely impact, operations or regulatory compliance and could result in remedial expenses, fines, litigation, and loss of reputation, potentially impacting our financial results. our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer, including losses resulting from terrorism, and our insurance costs may increase. we have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. however, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. as a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. market forces beyond our control may limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain in the future or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. certain catastrophic losses may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. as a result, if we suffer such a catastrophic loss, we may not be successful in obtaining future insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. furthermore, our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition. our business is particularly sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. most of our customers travel to reach our las vegas and macau properties. acts of terrorism may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to las vegas and macau, including our properties. regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of war would have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. we conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. 25 table of contents our subsidiaries payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. in addition, our subsidiaries debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. we expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. an inability of our subsidiaries to pay us dividends and distributions would have a significant negative effect on our liquidity. if a third party successfully challenges our ownership of, or right to use, the wynn-related trademarks and/or service marks, our business or results of operations could be harmed. our intellectual property assets, especially the logo version of wynn, are among our most valuable assets. we have filed applications with the pto and with various foreign patent and trademark registries including registries in macau, china, hong kong, singapore, taiwan, japan, certain european countries and various other jurisdictions throughout the world, to register a variety of wynn-related trademarks and service marks in connection with a variety of goods and services. these marks include wynn resorts, wynn design and development, wynn las vegas, wynn macau, wynn palace and encore. some of the applications are based upon ongoing use and others are based upon a bona fide intent to use the marks in the future. a common element of most of these marks is the use of the surname wynn. as a general rule, a surname (or the portion of a mark primarily constituting a surname) is not eligible for registration unless the surname has acquired secondary meaning. to date, we have been successful in demonstrating to the pto such secondary meaning for the wynn name, in certain of the applications, based upon factors including mr. wynn prominence as a resort developer, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful with the other pending applications. federal registrations are not completely dispositive of the right to such marks. third parties who claim prior rights with respect to similar marks may nonetheless challenge our right to obtain registrations or our use of the marks and seek to overcome the presumptions afforded by such registrations. furthermore, due to the increased use of technology in computerized gaming machines and in business operations generally, other forms of intellectual property rights (such as patents and copyrights) are becoming of increased relevance. it is possible that, in the future, third parties might assert superior intellectual property rights or allege that their intellectual property rights cover some aspect of our operations. the defense of such allegations may result in substantial expenses, and, if such claims are successfully prosecuted, may have a material impact on our business. efforts we take to acquire and protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use throughout the world, which may include retaining counsel and commencing litigation in various jurisdictions, may be costly and may not be successful in protecting and preserving the status and value of our intellectual property assets. we are subject to taxation by various governments and agencies. the rate of taxation could change. we are subject to tax by various governments and agencies, both in the u.s. and in macau. changes in the rates of taxation, the amount of taxes we owe and the time when income is subject to taxation, our ability to claim u.s. foreign tax credits, failure to renew our macau dividend agreement and macau income tax exemption after 2015 and the imposition of foreign withholding taxes could increase our overall rate of taxation. because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation, which creates uncertainty regarding future environmental expenditures and liabilities. we have incurred costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. under these and other environmental requirements we may be required to 26 table of contents investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our property. as an owner or operator, we could also be held responsible to a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. these laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. the liability under those laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of the responsibility. the costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our property. risks associated with our macau operations we depend upon games promoters for a significant portion of our gaming revenue. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues could be adversely affected. we may lose the clientele of our games promoters, who generate a significant portion of our gaming revenue. there is intense competition among casino operators in macau for services provided by games promoters, which we expect to intensify as additional casinos open in macau. if we are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable games promoters, or lose a significant number of our games promoters to our competitors, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be adversely affected and we will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with vip customers. in addition, if our games promoters are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our vip customers, our ability to maintain or grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. increased competition for the services of games promoters may require us to pay increased commission rates to games promoters. certain games promoters have significant leverage and bargaining strength in negotiating operational agreements with casino operators. this leverage could result in games promoters negotiating changes to our operational agreements, including higher commissions, or the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of certain relationships with games promoters. if we need to increase our commission rates or otherwise change our practices with respect to games promoters due to competitive forces, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure by the games promoters with whom we work to comply with macau gaming laws and high standards of probity and integrity might affect our reputation and ability to comply with the requirements of our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. the reputations and probity of the games promoters with whom we work are important to our own reputation and to our ability to operate in compliance with our concession, macau gaming laws and other gaming licenses. we are not able to control our games promoters compliance with these high standards of probity and integrity, and our games promoters may violate provisions in their contracts with us designed to ensure such compliance. in addition, if we enter into a new business relationship with a games promoter whose probity is in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on our own probity. if our games promoters are unable to maintain required standards of probity and integrity, we may face consequences from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. furthermore, if any of our games promoters violate the macau gaming laws while on our premises, the macau government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against us, the games promoter, or each concurrently, and we may be sanctioned and our reputation could be harmed. 27 table of contents the financial resources of our games promoters may be insufficient to allow them to continue doing business at our resort. our games promoters may encounter decreased liquidity, limiting their ability to grant credit to their patrons, resulting in decreased gaming volume at wynn macau. furthermore, credit already extended by our games promoters to their patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. this inability to grant credit and collect amounts due can negatively affect our games promoters operations, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. revenues from our macau gaming operations will end if we cannot secure an extension of our concession in 2022 or if the macau government exercises its redemption right in 2017. our concession agreement with the macau government expires in june 2022. unless our concession is extended, in june 2022, all of our gaming operations and related equipment in macau will be automatically transferred to the macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. beginning in june 2017, the macau government may redeem the concession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. in the event the macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. the amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of revenue generated during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied for the remaining years under the concession. we may not be able to renew or extend our concession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all and, if our concession is redeemed, the compensation paid to us may not be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. the redemption of or failure to extend our concession would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if wynn macau fails to comply with the concession agreement, the macau government can terminate our concession without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. the macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate our concession in the event of our material non-compliance with the basic obligations under the concession and applicable macau laws. the concession agreement expressly provides that the government of macau may unilaterally rescind the concession agreement if wynn macau: conducts unauthorized games or activities that are excluded from its corporate purpose; suspends gaming operations in macau for more than seven consecutive days (or more than 14 days in a civil year) without justification; defaults in payment of taxes, premiums, contributions or other required amounts; does not comply with government inspections or supervision; systematically fails to observe its obligations under the concession system; fails to maintain bank guarantees or bonds satisfactory to the government; is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings or becomes insolvent; engages in serious fraudulent activity, damaging to the public interest; or repeatedly violates applicable gaming laws. if the government of macau unilaterally rescinds the concession agreement, wynn macau will be required to compensate the government in accordance with applicable law, and the areas defined as casino space under macau law and all of the gaming equipment pertaining to our gaming operations will be transferred to the government without compensation. the loss of our concession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 28 table of contents our macau subsidiaries indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of their assets. subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our macau subsidiaries debt is secured by liens on substantially all of their assets. in the event of a default by such subsidiaries under their financing documents, or if such subsidiaries experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of such secured debt would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our macau subsidiaries unsecured debt be entitled to payment from their remaining assets. we compete for limited labor resources in macau and macau government policies may also affect our ability to employ imported labor. the success of our operations in macau will be affected by our success in hiring and retaining employees. we compete with a large number of casino resorts in macau for a limited number of qualified employees. we have to seek employees from other countries to adequately staff our resort and certain macau government policies affect our ability to import labor in certain job classifications. despite our coordination with the macau labor and immigration authorities to assure that our labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for our operations or obtain required work permits for those employees. wynn macau may be affected by adverse political and economic conditions. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our macau operations. our macau operations are subject to significant political, economic and social risks inherent in doing business in an emerging market. macau legislative, regulatory, legal, economic and cultural institutions are in a period of transition. the continued success of wynn macau will depend on political and economic conditions in macau and mainland china. for example, fiscal decline and civil, domestic or international unrest in macau, china or the surrounding region could significantly harm our business, not only by reducing customer demand for casino resorts, but also by increasing the risk of imposition of taxes and exchange controls or other governmental restrictions, laws or regulations that might impede wynn macau operations or ability to repatriate funds. macau may not have an adequate transportation infrastructure to accommodate the demand from future development. because of additional casino projects which are under construction and to be developed in the future, the ferry and helicopter services which provide transportation between macau and hong kong may need to be expanded to accommodate the increased visitation of macau. if transportation facilities to and from macau are inadequate to meet the demands of an increased volume of gaming customers visiting macau, the desirability of macau as a gaming destination, as well as the results of operations of wynn macau, could be negatively impacted. extreme weather conditions may have an adverse impact on wynn macau. macau subtropical climate and location on the south china sea are subject to extreme weather conditions including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. unfavorable weather conditions could negatively affect the profitability of our resort complex and prevent or discourage guests from traveling to macau. conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of wynn macau, limited. in october 2009, wynn macau, limited, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of wynn resorts and the developer, owner and operator of wynn macau, listed its ordinary shares of common stock on the stock 29 table of contents exchange of hong kong limited. wynn macau, limited sold through an initial public offering, 1,437,500,000 shares (27.7%) of this subsidiary common stock. as a result of wynn macau, limited having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of wynn macau, limited may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of wynn macau, limited. decisions that could have different implications for wynn resorts and wynn macau, limited, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with wynn macau, limited, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. certain nevada gaming laws apply to wynn macau gaming activities and associations. certain nevada gaming laws also apply to gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the state of nevada. with respect to our wynn macau operations, we and our subsidiaries that must be licensed to conduct gaming operations in nevada are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning gaming activities and associations in macau conducted by our macau-related subsidiaries. we and our licensed nevada subsidiaries also will be subject to disciplinary action by the nevada gaming commission if our macau-related subsidiaries: knowingly violate any macau laws relating to their macau gaming operations; fail to conduct wynn macau operations in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of nevada gaming operations; engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in nevada, reflects or tends to reflect discredit or disrepute upon the state of nevada or gaming in nevada, or is contrary to nevada gaming policies; engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of the state of nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in nevada on the ground of unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. such disciplinary action could include suspension, conditioning, limitation or revocation of the registration, licenses or approvals held by us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries, including wynn las vegas, llc, and the imposition of substantial fines. in addition, if the nevada state gaming control board determines that any actual or intended activities or associations of our macau-related subsidiaries may be prohibited pursuant to one or more of the standards described above, the nevada state gaming control board can require us and our licensed nevada subsidiaries to file an application with the nevada gaming commission for a finding of suitability of the activity or association. if the nevada gaming commission finds that the activity or association in macau is unsuitable or prohibited, our macau-related subsidiaries will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. consequently, should the nevada gaming commission find that our macau-related subsidiary gaming activities or associations in macau are unsuitable, those subsidiaries may be prohibited from undertaking their planned gaming activities or associations in macau, or be required to divest their investment in macau, possibly on unfavorable terms. unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may increase wynn macau obligations under the concession agreement and cause fluctuations in the value of our investment in macau. the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and the two are often used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the 30 table of contents exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are no longer linked to the u.s. dollar, the exchange rate for these currencies may severely fluctuate. the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies may also change. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that we operate in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service its debt. currency exchange controls and currency export restrictions could negatively impact wynn macau. currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of currency by certain countries may negatively impact the success of wynn macau. for example, there are currently existing currency exchange controls and restrictions on the export of the renminbi, the currency of china. restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from china to macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in macau and negatively impact wynn macau gaming operations. risks related to share ownership and stockholder matters our largest stockholders are able to exert significant influence over our operations and future direction. as of december 31, 2013, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn own 10,026,708 shares and 9,659,355 shares, respectively, or in the aggregate approximately 19.5%, of our outstanding common stock. as a result, mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn, to the extent they vote their shares in a similar manner, may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring our stockholders approval, including the approval of significant corporate transactions. in addition, until february 2012, aruze usa, inc. owned 24,549,222 shares of our outstanding common stock. on february 18, 2012, the company redeemed all of the shares of the company common stock held by aruze usa, inc. for additional information on the redemption, see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies . under the amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of january 6, 2010, by and among stephen a. wynn, elaine p. wynn and aruze usa, inc. (the amended and restated stockholders agreement ), mr. wynn and elaine p. wynn have agreed to vote the shares of the company common stock held by them subject to the terms of the amended and restated stockholders agreement in a manner so as to elect to our board of directors each of the nominees contained on each and every slate of directors endorsed by mr. wynn, which slate will include, subject to certain exceptions, elaine p. wynn. as a result of this voting arrangement, mr. wynn, as a practical matter, exercises significant influence over the slate of directors to be elected to our board of directors. in addition, with stated exceptions, the amended and restated stockholders agreement requires the written consent of the other party prior to any party selling any shares of the company common stock that it owns. in june 2012, in connection with the pending litigation between the company and aruze usa, inc., elaine p. wynn submitted a cross claim against mr. wynn and kazuo okada seeking to void the amended and 31 table of contents restated stockholders agreement. certain wynn las vegas indentures provide that if mr. wynn, together with certain related parties, in the aggregate beneficially owns a lesser percentage of the outstanding common stock of the company than is beneficially owned by any other person, a change of control will have occurred. if elaine wynn prevails in her cross claim, stephen a. wynn would not beneficially own or control elaine wynn shares and a change in control may result under the wynn las vegas debt documents. for additional information on the cross claim, see item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 8 long-term debt and note 16 commitments and contingencies . in november 2006, the board of directors of wynn resorts approved an amendment of its bylaws that exempts future acquisitions of shares of wynn resorts common stock by either mr. wynn or aruze usa, inc. from nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes. in light of the determination by the board of directors on february 18, 2012 that each of aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and mr. kazuo okada is an unsuitable person under the company articles of incorporation and the redemption and cancellation of aruze usa inc. shares of company common stock, our fifth amended and restated bylaws amended these provisions to delete the reference to aruze usa, inc. and its affiliates. the nevada acquisition of controlling interest statutes require stockholder approval in order to exercise voting rights in connection with any acquisition of a controlling interest in certain nevada corporations unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation in effect on the 10th day following the acquisition of a controlling interest by certain acquiring persons provide that these statutes do not apply to the corporation or to the acquisition specifically by types of existing or future stockholders. these statutes define a controlling interest as (i) one-fifth or more but less than one third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more, of the voting power in the election of directors. as a result of these bylaws provisions, mr. wynn or his affiliates may acquire ownership of outstanding voting shares of wynn resorts permitting him or them to exercise more than one-third but less than a majority, or a majority or more, of all of the voting power of the company in the election of directors, without requiring a resolution of the company stockholders granting voting rights in the control shares acquired. our stock price may be volatile. the trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as general united states, china, and world economic and financial conditions, our own quarterly variations in operating results, increased competition, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts, changes in applicable laws or regulations, changes affecting the travel industry. the stock market in general, and prices for companies in our industry in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. risks related to our substantial indebtedness we are highly leveraged and future cash flow may not be sufficient for us to meet our obligations, and we might have difficulty obtaining more financing. we have a substantial amount of consolidated debt in relation to our equity. as of december 31, 2013, we had total outstanding debt of approximately $6.6 billion, which includes a portion of the funds we expect to need to construct wynn palace. we may, however, incur additional indebtedness in connection with the construction of wynn palace. see item 1 business , construction and development opportunities . in addition, we are permitted to incur additional indebtedness if certain conditions are met, including conditions under our wynn macau credit facilities and our wynn las vegas indentures in connection with other future potential development plans. on february 18, 2012, we issued a subordinated promissory note with a principal amount of approximately $1.94 billion in redemption of all of the shares of wynn resorts common stock held by aruze usa, inc. (the redemption note ). for additional information on the redemption and the redemption note, see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies . 32 table of contents our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example: failure to meet our payment obligations could result in acceleration of our indebtedness, foreclosure upon our assets that serve as collateral or bankruptcy; servicing our indebtedness requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from the operations of wynn las vegas and wynn macau and reduces the amount of available cash, if any, to fund working capital and other cash requirements; aruze usa, inc., universal entertainment corporation and kazuo okada have challenged the redemption of aruze usa, inc. shares and we are currently involved in litigation with those parties as well as related shareholder derivative litigation. the outcome of these various proceedings cannot be predicted. any adverse judgments or settlements involving payment of a material sum of money could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could expose us to additional claims by third parties including current or former investors or regulators. any adverse judgments or settlements would reduce our profits and could limit our ability to operate our business. see item 3 legal proceedings and item 8 financial statements and supplementary data , note 16 commitments and contingencies ; we may experience decreased revenues from our operations due to decreased consumer spending levels and high unemployment, and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs and/or fail to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; we may not be able to obtain additional financing, if needed, to satisfy working capital requirements or pay for other capital expenditures, debt service or other obligations; and rates with respect to a portion of the interest we pay will fluctuate with market rates and, accordingly, our interest expense will increase if market interest rates increase. under the terms of the documents governing our debt facilities, subject to certain limitations, we are permitted to incur indebtedness. if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above will be exacerbated. the agreements governing our debt facilities contain certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. some of our debt facilities require us to satisfy various financial covenants, which include requirements for minimum interest coverage ratios and leverage ratios pertaining to total debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (both currently required for our wynn macau credit facilities). future indebtedness or other contracts could contain covenants more restrictive than those contained in our existing debt facilities. the agreements governing our debt facilities also contain restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. these restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: pay dividends or distributions or repurchase equity; incur additional debt; make investments; create liens on assets to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; issue stock of, or member interests in, subsidiaries; 33 table of contents enter into sale-leaseback transactions; engage in other businesses; merge or consolidate with another company; transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets; issue disqualified stock; create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries; and designate restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events outside of our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. if our or wynn macau operations fail to generate adequate cash flow, we may violate those covenants, causing a default under our agreements, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition or result in our lenders or holders of our debt taking action to enforce their security interests in our various assets or cause all outstanding amounts to be due and payable immediately. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. interest rate risks one of our primary exposures to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our debt facilities that bear interest based on floating rates. see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources financing activities. we attempt to manage interest rate risk by managing the mix of long-term fixed rate borrowings and variable rate borrowings supplemented by hedging activities as believed by us to be appropriate. we cannot assure you that these risk management strategies have had the desired effect, and interest rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our results of operations. the following table provides estimated future cash flow information derived from our best estimates of repayments at december 31, 2013 of our expected long-term indebtedness and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. however, we cannot predict the libor or hibor rates that will be in effect in the future. as of december 31, 2013, such rates remain at historic lows. actual rates will vary. the one-month libor and hibor rates at december 31, 2013 of 0.1677% and 0.2100%, respectively were used for all variable rate calculations in the table below. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents as applicable years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total (in millions) long-term debt: fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ $ 5,608 $ 5,608 average interest rate % % % % % 4.8 % 4.8 % variable rate $ 1.1 $ 1.4 $ 1.4 $ 405 $ 576 $ $ 985 average interest rate 1.4 % 1.4 % 1.4 % 1.9 % 2.0 % % 1.9 % 70 table of contents interest rate swap information we have entered into floating-for-fixed interest rate swap arrangements relating to certain of our floating-rate debt facilities. we measure the fair value of our interest rate swaps on a recurring basis. changes in the fair values of our interest rate swaps for each reporting period recorded are, and will continue to be, recognized as an increase (decrease) in swap fair value in our consolidated statements of income, as the swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting. macau operations effective, september 28, 2012, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the amended wynn macau credit facilities. under the two swap agreements, the company pays a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.73% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of hk$3.95 billion (approximately $509.4 million) incurred under the amended wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable interest rate based on the applicable hibor at the time of payment. these interest rate swaps fix the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.48% to 3.23%. these interest rate swap agreements mature in july 2017. effective october 31, 2012, we entered into a third interest rate swap agreement intended to hedge a portion of the underlying interest rate risk on borrowings under the amended wynn macau credit facilities. under this swap agreement, the company pays a fixed interest rate (excluding the applicable interest margin) of 0.6763% on notional amounts corresponding to borrowings of $243.8 million incurred under the amended wynn macau credit facilities in exchange for receipts on the same amount at a variable rate based on the applicable libor at the time of payment. this interest rate swap fixes the all-in interest rate on such amounts at 2.4263% to 3.1763%. this interest rate swap agreement matures in july 2017. as of december 31, 2013, the interest rate swaps were recorded as an asset of $10.3 million and included in deposits and other assets. as of december 31, 2012, the interest rate swaps were recorded as a liability of $3.9 million and included in other long-term liabilities. the fair value approximates the amount we would pay if these contracts were settled at the respective valuation dates. fair value is estimated based upon current, and predictions of future, interest rate levels along a yield curve, the remaining duration of the instruments and other market conditions, and therefore, is subject to significant estimation and a high degree of variability of fluctuation between periods. we adjust this amount by applying a non-performance valuation, considering our creditworthiness or the creditworthiness of our counterparties at each settlement date, as applicable. las vegas operations in june 2012, we terminated our only wynn las vegas swap for a payment of $2.4 million. other interest rate swap information the following table provides information about our interest rate swaps, by contractual maturity dates, as of december 31, 2013 and using estimated future libor and hibor rates based upon implied forward rates in the yield curve. the information is presented in u.s. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency: years ending december 31, expected maturity date 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total (in millions) average notional amount $ $ $ $ 753.0 $ $ $ 753.0 average pay rate % % % 0.71 % % % 0.71 % average receive rate % % % 0.60 % % % 0.60 % 71 table of contents we do not use derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate sensitivity as of december 31, 2013, approximately 96% all of our debt was based on fixed rates, including the notional amounts related to interest rate swaps. based on our borrowings as of december 31, 2013, an assumed 1% change in the variable rates would cause our annual interest cost to change by $2.3 million. foreign currency risks the currency delineated in wynn macau concession agreement with the government of macau is the macau pataca. the macau pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the hong kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in macau. the hong kong dollar is linked to the u.s. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. however, the exchange linkages of the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca, and the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, changes in chinese governmental policies and international economic and political developments. if the hong kong dollar and the macau pataca are not linked to the u.s. dollar in the future, severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies may result. we also cannot assure you that the current rate of exchange fixed by the applicable monetary authorities for these currencies will remain at the same level. because many of wynn macau payment and expenditure obligations are in macau patacas, in the event of unfavorable macau pataca or hong kong dollar rate changes, wynn macau obligations, as denominated in u.s. dollars, would increase. in addition, because we expect that most of the revenues for any casino that wynn macau operates in macau will be in hong kong dollars, we are subject to foreign exchange risk with respect to the exchange rate between the hong kong dollar and the u.s. dollar. also, if any of our macau-related entities incur u.s. dollar-denominated debt, fluctuations in the exchange rates of the macau pataca or the hong kong dollar, in relation to the u.s. dollar, could have adverse effects on wynn macau results of operations, financial condition, and ability to service its debt. to date, we have not engaged in hedging activities intended to protect against foreign currency risk. approximately 53% of our cash balances are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the hong kong dollar. based on our balances at december 31, 2013, an assumed 1% change in the us dollar/hong kong dollar exchange rate would cause a foreign currency transaction gain/loss of approximately $12.3 million. 72 table of contents