risk factors. you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to pending governmental investigations and litigation any resolution of the ongoing investigations being conducted by certain federal and state agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are currently under investigation by federal and state authorities, including ahca, the u.s. attorney office for the middle district of florida (the usao ), the civil division of the u.s. department of justice (the civil division ), the office of inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services (the oig ) and the florida attorney general medicaid fraud control unit ( mfcu ). pursuant to an agreement dated august 18, 2008 with ahca, the usao and mfcu, two of our subsidiaries, wellcare of florida, inc. and healthease of florida, inc. (together, the wellcare florida hmos ), agreed to transmit 20 table of contents $35.2 million (the transmitted amount ) to the financial litigation unit of the usao. the transmitted amount was based on our best estimate, as of the effective date of the agreement, of the total potential amount of medicaid behavioral health capitation refunds that the wellcare florida hmos owe or may owe to ahca for calendar years 2002 through 2006, but did not include any interest, fines, penalties or other assessments that may be imposed against us. of the total transmitted amount, we acknowledged and agreed that the wellcare florida hmos would make payment of not less than a total amount of $24.5 million, and therefore we authorized the usao, ahca and mfcu to access and distribute the $24.5 million to the appropriate federal and state agencies in accordance with applicable federal and state law. in addition, the parties to the agreement acknowledged and agreed that $10.7 million of the transmitted amount would be held in an escrow account pending resolution of all federal and related state claims by the united states or the state of florida for monetary damages or other financial impositions of any kind arising from, or related to, the investigation by mfcu or the usao. the amount held in escrow does not limit in any way the ability of federal or state authorities to recover additional amounts, including interest, civil or criminal fines, penalties or other assessments that may be imposed against us, and we cannot make any assurances that the federal or state authorities will not seek or be entitled to recover amounts in excess of the escrowed amounts. the agreement did not, nor should it be construed to, operate as a settlement or release of any criminal, civil or administrative claims for monetary, injunctive or other relief against us, whether under federal, state or local statutes, regulations or common law. furthermore, the agreement does not operate, nor should it be construed, as a concession that we are entitled to any limitation of our potential federal, state or local civil or criminal liability. we are engaged in resolution discussions as to matters under review with the usao, the civil division, the oig and the state of florida. any resolution of the ongoing investigations being conducted by certain federal and state agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. based on the current status of matters and all information known to us to date, in the year ended december 31, 2007 we recorded selling, general and administrative expense and accrued a liability in the amount of $50.0 million in connection with the resolution of these matters, which is included in the other accrued expenses item within our consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2007, and 2008, respectively. we believe that it is probable that the actual resolution amount for all such matters under review will be more than the amounts that have already been reflected in our financial statements; however, we cannot provide an estimable range of additional amounts, if any, nor can we provide assurances regarding the timing, terms and conditions of any potential negotiated resolution of pending investigations by the usao, the civil division, the oig or the state of florida. we have responded to subpoenas issued by the state of connecticut attorney general office involving transactions between us and our affiliates and their potential impact on the costs of connecticut medicaid program. in addition, the sec is conducting an informal investigation. we do not know whether, or the extent to which, any pending investigations will result in the imposition of operating restrictions on our business. if we were to plead guilty to or be convicted of a health care related charge, potential adverse consequences could include revocation of our licenses, termination of one or more of our contracts and/or exclusion from further participation in medicare or medicaid programs. in addition, we could be required to operate under a corporate integrity agreement or under the supervision of a monitor, either of which could require us to operate under significant restrictions, place substantial burdens on our management, hinder our ability to attract and retain qualified associates and cause us to incur significant costs. further, the majority of our contracts pursuant to which we provide medicare and medicaid services contain provisions that grant the regulator broad authority to terminate at will contracts with any entity affiliated with a convicted entity or for other reasons. any such outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the pendency of these investigations as well as the litigation described below could also impair our ability to raise additional capital, which may be needed to pay any resulting interest, civil or criminal fines, penalties or other assessments. we and certain of our past officers and directors are defendants in litigation relating to our participation in federal health care programs, accounting practices and other related matters, and the outcome of these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. putative class action complaints were filed against us, as well as certain of our past and present officers and directors on october 26, 2007 and on november 2, 2007, alleging, among other things, numerous violations of securities laws. subsequent developments in these cases are described below in part i item 3 legal proceedings. in addition, five putative shareholder derivative actions were filed between october 29, 2007 and november 15, 2007. all five actions contend, among other things, that the defendants allegedly allowed or caused us to misrepresent our reported financial results, in amounts unspecified in the pleadings, and seek damages and equitable relief for, among other things, the defendants supposed breach of fiduciary duty, waste and unjust enrichment. subsequent developments in these cases are described below in part i item 3 legal proceedings. in addition, in a letter dated october 15, 2008, the civil division informed counsel to the special committee that as part of the pending civil inquiry, the civil division is investigating a number of qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act, 31 u.s.c. sections 3729-3733. the seal in those cases has been partially lifted for 21 table of contents the purpose of authorizing the civil division to disclose to us the existence of the qui tam complaints. the complaints otherwise remain under seal as required by 31 u.s.c. section 3730(b)(3). we and the special committee are undertaking to discuss with the civil division, and address, allegations by the qui tam relators. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action on october 25, 2007 in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. because qui tam actions brought under federal and state false claims acts are sealed by the court at the time of filing, we are unable to determine the nature of the allegations and, therefore, we do not know whether this action relates to the subject matter of the federal investigations. it is possible that additional qui tam actions have been filed against us and are under seal. thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure under the false claims act, or similar state statutes, based on qui tam actions other than those discussed in this 2008 form 10-k. at this time, we cannot predict the probable outcome of these claims. these and other potential actions that may be filed against us, whether with or without merit, may divert the attention of management from our business, harm our reputation and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for a discussion of the aforementioned proceedings, see part i item 3 legal proceedings. our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation, including the matters discussed in part i item 3 legal proceedings. in connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors, officers and associates and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. certain of these obligations may not be covered matters under our directors and officers liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. further, in the event the directors, officers and associates are ultimately determined to not be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover the amounts we previously advanced to them. in addition, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with the pending investigations and litigation. we maintain directors and officers liability insurance in the amounts of $45.0 million for indemnifiable claims and $10.0 million for non-indemnifiable securities claims. we have met the retention limits under these policies. we also maintain insurance in the amount of $120.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. due to these insurance coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification and other obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. continuing negative publicity regarding the investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. as a result of the ongoing federal and state investigations, shareholder and derivative litigation, restatement of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. this negative publicity may harm our relationships with current and future investors, government regulators, associates, members, vendors and providers. for example, it is possible that the negative publicity and its effect on our work environment could cause our associates to terminate their employment or, if they remain employed by us, result in reduced morale that could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and, therefore, associates and prospective associates may also consider our stability and the value of any equity incentives when making decisions regarding employment opportunities. additionally, negative publicity may adversely affect our reputation, which could harm our ability to obtain new membership, building or maintaining our network of providers, or business in the future. for example, when making award determinations, states frequently consider the plan historical regulatory compliance and reputation. as a result, continuing negative publicity regarding the investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. the investigations and related matters have diverted, and are expected to continue to divert, management attention, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition to the challenges of the various government investigations and extensive litigation we face, our management team has spent considerable time and effort with regard to the internal and external investigations involving our historical accounting practices 22 table of contents and internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. in particular, our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and general counsel, as well as senior members of our finance and legal departments, have spent considerable time and effort with regard to the investigations, the restatement and related matters. the significant time and effort spent by our management team on these matters has diverted, and is expected to continue to divert, its attention, which has, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our business we have expended, and expect to continue to expend, significant financial resources as a result of the government and special committee investigations, which will reduce our cash available to meet statutory reserve requirements, debt service payments and other corporate obligations for our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. through december 31, 2008, we had incurred a total of approximately $124.1 million in administrative expenses associated with, or consequential to, the government and special committee investigations, including legal fees, accounting fees, consulting fees, employee recruitment and retention costs and similar expenses. approximately $103.0 million of these investigation related costs were incurred in 2008. we expect to continue incurring significant additional costs as a result of the federal and state investigations and pending civil actions, including administrative expenses similar to those discussed above, and costs necessary to improve our corporate governance and address other issues that were identified through the restatement and remediation processes. we may also be required to pay significant damages or other amounts in the event of an adverse judgment or settlement. a substantial amount of these costs will not be covered by, or may exceed the limits of, our insurance. if we are unable to obtain additional financing, such payments may limit cash available for our operations and could impair our ability to meet certain statutory capital reserve requirements. further, if we cannot obtain additional financing, our cash generated by operations may not be sufficient to meet these obligations. we are engaged in resolution discussions as to matters under review with the usao, the civil division, the oig and the state of florida. based on the current status of matters and all information known to us to date, in the year ended december 31, 2007 we recorded selling, general and administrative expense and accrued a liability in the amount of $50.0 million in connection with the resolution of these matters, which is included in the other accrued expenses line item within our consolidated balance sheets as of december 31, 2007, and 2008, respectively. we believe that it is probable that the actual resolution amount for all such matters under review will be more than the amounts that have already been reflected in our financial statements; however, we cannot provide an estimable range of additional amounts, if any, nor can we provide assurances regarding the timing, terms and conditions of any potential negotiated resolution of pending investigations by the usao, the civil division, the oig or the state of florida. if we were required to pay a significant amount as restitution and/or a fine or penalty in the near term as part of any resolution, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. for more information related to this accrual, see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in this 2008 form 10-k. if we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in future periods, it could require us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources in connection with our efforts to remediate these material weaknesses and to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007. specifically, we concluded that (a) former senior management set an inappropriate tone in connection with the company efforts to comply with the regulatory requirements related to certain medicaid contracts that led to a deficiency in the design in our internal controls, and therefore a material weakness existed in a portion of the control environment and control activities components of our internal controls, and (b) former senior management failure to ensure effective communications regarding certain medicaid contracts with, among others, our board and certain regulators resulted in a material weakness in the information and communication system. solely as a result of the material weaknesses described above, our management also concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of december 31, 2007. we cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or intend to take will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future and, accordingly, additional material weaknesses may occur in the future. it is possible that additional control deficiencies may be identified in addition to, or that are unrelated to, our review of the work of the special committee. these control deficiencies may represent one or more material weaknesses. our inability to remedy any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future could, among other things, cause us to fail to file timely our periodic reports with the sec; result in the need to further restate our historical financial statements; prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial information and forecasts or from avoiding or detecting fraud; or require us to incur additional costs or divert management resources to, among other things, comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. 23 table of contents if our government contracts are not renewed or are renewed on substantially different terms, are terminated or become subject to an enrollment or marketing freeze, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we provide our medicaid, medicare, s-chip and other services through a limited number of contracts with state, federal or local government agencies. these contracts generally have terms of one to four years and are subject to non-renewal by the applicable government agency. all of our government contracts are terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. our federal and state government contracts are generally subject to cancellation, non-renewal or a potential freeze on marketing or enrollment in the event of the unavailability of adequate program funding, compliance violations or for other reasons. in some jurisdictions, a cancellation or enrollment freeze may be immediate, while in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. for example, during 2008, we were subject to a 60-day medicaid marketing freeze in three counties in florida resulting from the state allegation of wrongful marketing practices. further, in february 2009, cms notified us that, effective march 7, 2009, we have been sanctioned through a suspension of marketing to medicare beneficiaries and enrollments into all lines of our medicare business. this suspension will remain in effect until cms has determined that the suspension should be lifted. at this time, we cannot provide any assurances regarding the duration of the suspension and are evaluating the impact that it could have on our results of operations and our business. nonetheless, we anticipate that our inability to perform marketing activities to, or enroll new medicare members, as well as any actions that we take in response to the sanction, will have a material negative affect on our results of operations and business in 2009 and potentially beyond. further, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to take appropriate corrective action or that, despite any corrective measures taken on our part, that we will not incur additional penalties, fines or other operating restrictions which could have an additional material adverse affect on our results of operations. in response to the cms suspension in march 2009, we have made certain changes to our medicare marketing sales force and are continuing to assess the impact of ceasing marketing activities and the resulting loss of membership to determine what effect, if any, this action will have on our staffing needs and other operational capabilities to effectively and efficiently meet the needs of the members we serve. some of our contracts are also subject to termination or are only eligible for renewal through annual competitive bidding processes. for example, renewal of our pdp business is subject to an annual bidding process. as previously described, we bid above the cms benchmark in 22 of the 34 cms regions for plan year 2009 and are ineligible to receive auto-assigned members in these regions. as a result, 252,000 auto-assigned dual-eligible members were assigned away from our plans and approximately 28,000 low-income subsidized members disenrolled from our plans in january 2009. if we are unable to renew or to rebid or compete successfully for any of our existing or potential government contracts, if any of our contracts are terminated, or if any limitations or restrictions are imposed, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. we use administrative, claim and clinical data, known as encounter data, to identify members who may benefit from preventive or increased coordination of care or who otherwise need to maintain health status in association with a chronic condition or complex clinical situation. this data may also be aggregated and shared with specific health care providers to determine the effectiveness of care delivered to our members. we are required to report encounter data to our regulators who use the data to monitor what services we provide to our members, determine if services are being under- or over-utilized and evaluate the quality of the services we provide. to do so, our regulators compare our encounter data to certain defined quality metrics such as the health effectiveness data and information set (hedis ) or unique metrics defined by the particular regulator. our regulators may also use our encounter data, as well as data submitted by other health plans, to set reimbursement rates, assign membership, assess the quality of care being provided to members and evaluate contractual and regulatory compliance. for example, new york uses encounter data to measure and rate the quality of services health plans offer. plans that score well on the quality measures as well as certain other performance standards are rewarded with additional premiums and auto-assigned members. plans that fail to meet the standards for this additional premium and auto-assigned members, including established quality measures, for three consecutive years could be excluded from participation in the new york medicaid program. further, florida has indicated a desire to implement a quality-based auto-assignment program by september 2009. the formula used to determine health plan assignment may utilize, in part, encounter data submissions. failure by our providers to submit key data elements or to conform their submissions to required formats results in deficiencies in our encounter data. we are currently working closely with several states to ascertain or improve the accuracy or completeness of our encounter data. where we have inaccurate or incomplete encounter data, we are required to expend additional effort to collect or correct this data and we are exposed to regulatory risk for noncompliance. we expect states to increase their reliance on encounter 24 table of contents data. our inability to obtain, or submit in a timely manner, complete and accurate encounter data could significantly affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. our estimate of medical benefits expense and medical benefits payable are subject to greater variability when there is more limited claims payment experience or information available to us, which could cause our reported results of operations to be materially different than expected. the factors and assumptions that are used to develop our estimate of medical benefits expense and medical benefits payable inherently are subject to greater variability when there is more limited claims payment experience or information available to us. for example, from 2004 to 2008, we grew at a rapid pace, through the expansion of existing products and introduction of new products, such as part d and pffs, and entry into new geographic areas, such as georgia. the ultimate claims payment amounts, patterns and trends for new products and geographic areas can not be precisely predicted at their onset, since we, the providers and the members do not have experience in these products or geographic areas. standard accepted actuarial methodologies require the use of key assumptions consisting of trend and completion factors using an assumption of moderately adverse conditions that would allow for this inherent variability. this can result in larger differences between the originally estimated medical benefits payable and the actual claims amounts paid. medical cost trends can be volatile and management is required to use considerable judgment in the selection of medical benefits expense trends and other actuarial model inputs. actual conditions, however, could differ from those assumed in the estimation process. due to the uncertainties associated with the factors used in the assumptions discussed above, the actual amount of medical benefits expense that we incur may be materially different than the amount of medical benefits payable originally estimated. if our estimates of medical benefits payable are inaccurate in the future, our reported results of operations could be favorably or unfavorably impacted. further, our inability to estimate medical benefits payable accurately may also materially adversely affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of any material adverse effect on our results of operations. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include, among others: lack of experience estimating medical benefits expense for new products and/or in new geographic areas; an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; higher than expected utilization of health care services; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; new mandated benefits or other changes in health care laws, regulations and/or practices; and unanticipated adverse selection by high cost members. we manage our medical benefits expense through a variety of techniques, including various payment methods to primary care physicians and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, medical management and quality management programs, upgraded information systems and reinsurance arrangements. however, we may not be able to manage these expenses effectively in the future. for example, a hypothetical 1.0% increase in our medical benefits ratio ( mbr ), the ratio of our medical expenses to the premiums we receive and a measure of our profitability, would have reduced our earnings before income taxes for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2008 by approximately $53.0 million and $64.8 million, respectively. if our medical benefits expense increases, our profitability and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we derive a large portion of our medicaid revenues and profits from operations in florida and georgia, and legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions or other factors that materially adversely affect those operations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. for the year ended december 31, 2008, our florida and georgia medicaid health plans accounted for approximately 32.7% and 41.0% of our total medicaid segment premium revenues, respectively. if we are unable to continue to operate in florida and georgia, 25 table of contents if our current operations in florida and georgia are significantly curtailed, or either florida or georgia are unable or unwilling to pay current rates for medicaid health plans, our revenues and profits will decrease materially. our reliance on our medicaid operations in florida and georgia could cause our revenues and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly, depending on legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions and similar factors. for example, in 2009, florida implemented medicaid rates that made it economically unfeasible for us to continue to provide services in the medicaid reform programs. as a result, we notified the state of florida that we were withdrawing from these programs effective july 1, 2009, which will result in a loss of approximately 80,000 members. these recent and possible future rate reductions will require us to evaluate our medical benefits and administrative expenses. in georgia, managed care legislation enacted on july 1, 2008 has resulted in program changes designed to address issues raised by health care providers during program implementation. these changes related to payment of claims, eligibility determination and provider contracting, and may negatively impact revenues and profits for the plan. further, continued economic slowdowns in florida and georgia have negatively impacted state revenues. consequently, in order to meet state budgetary requirements, florida or georgia or both may develop future medicaid capitation rates that are insufficient to keep pace with our medical trends or inflation, therefore reducing our profitability in those markets and materially adversely affecting our results of operations. similarly, although the u.s. congress approved the children health bill which, among things, increases federal funding to the s-chip and president obama signed the american recovery and reinvestment act that provides funding for, among other things, state medicaid programs and aid to states to help defray budget cuts, because of the unsettled nature of these initiatives, the numerous steps required to implement them and the substantial amount of state flexibility for determining how medicaid and s-chip funds will be used, we are currently unable to assess the ultimate impact that they will have on our business. it is possible that the ultimate impact of these initiatives could be negative. negative publicity regarding the managed care industry may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the managed care industry historically has been subject to negative publicity. this publicity may result in increased legislation, regulation and review of industry practices and, in some cases, litigation. these factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and services, require us to change our products and services and increase regulatory or legal burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the government agencies that regulate us can impose restrictions on our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, results of operations and cash flows. the government agencies that regulate us may limit or impose restrictions on us, or suspend our right to market to or add new members if it finds deficiencies in our provider network or operations, compliance violations or for other reasons. for example, during 2008, we were subject to a 60-day medicaid marketing freeze in three counties in florida resulting from the state allegation of wrongful marketing practices. further, in february 2009, we were notified by cms that, effective march 7, 2009, we have been sanctioned through a suspension of marketing to medicare beneficiaries and enrollments into all lines of our medicare business. this suspension will remain in effect until cms has determined that it should be lifted. at this time, we cannot provide any assurances regarding the duration of the suspension and we are evaluating the impact that it could have on our results of operations and our business. nonetheless, we anticipate that our inability to perform marketing activities to, or enroll new medicare members, as well as any actions that we take in response to the sanction, will have a material negative affect on our results of operations and business in 2009 and potentially beyond. further, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to take appropriate corrective action or that, despite any corrective measures taken on our part, that we will not incur additional penalties, fines or other operating restrictions which could have an additional material adverse affect on our results of operations. in response to the cms suspension in march 2009, we made certain changes to our medicare marketing sales force and are continuing to assess the impact of suspending marketing activities and the resulting loss of membership to determine what effect, if any, this action will have on our staffing needs and other operational capabilities to effectively and efficiently meet the needs of the members we serve. in addition, a governmental entity may take unilateral action to limit or suspend our ability to enter into additional contracts with that entity in the future, which could constrain our ability to expand our business. for example, in 2009 we terminated our contract with cms to offer ppo plans in georgia and, as a consequence, under the terms of our contract with cms, we are not allowed to re-enter georgia to offer ppo plans for a period of two years. when we enter new markets, regulators may place certain limitations on our license or may impose restrictions or additional requirements on our operations. for example, the north carolina department of insurance imposed a limitation on the number of pffs members we can enroll until we have operated in the state for a certain amount of time. further, when we commenced operations in ohio, the ohio department of insurance required us to maintain 300% rbc, which is higher than would be required of a plan that had been operating in the state for a longer period of time. these limitations and additional requirements can restrict our ability to grow our membership in new markets and may require us to make additional capital contributions to new plans which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, cash flows and results of operations. 26 table of contents because our premiums, which generate most of our revenues, are fixed by contract, we are unable to increase our premiums during the contract term if our corresponding medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member. these payments are fixed by contract, and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to four years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by state and federal governments. we have less control over costs related to the provision of health care services than we do over our selling, general and administrative expense. historically, our medical benefits expense as a percentage of premium revenue has fluctuated within a relatively narrow band. for example, our medical benefits expense was 81.1%, 79.4% and 85.3% for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. further, our regulators set premiums using actuarial methods based on historical data. actual experience, however, could differ from those assumed in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. if our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates or our regulators actuarial pricing assumptions, we will be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in our member mix may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations. our revenues, costs and margins vary based on changes to our membership mix, product mix and the demographics of our membership. our revenues are generally comprised of fixed payments that are determined by the type of member in our plans. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs required to serve members with various demographic and health risk profiles. as such, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for a medicaid abd member are generally significantly higher than for a non-abd member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the result of the previously described cms suspension of marketing of, enrollments into, all lines of our medicare business, we may encounter membership mix changes within our medicare membership which could negatively impact our results of operations. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes, there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, profitability and results of operations. our failure to make acquisitions or divestitures on terms favorable to us, or at all, or to successfully integrate the businesses and product lines we acquire, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. in addition to organic growth, acquisitions of other health plans remains an element of our growth strategy. however, the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets has made obtaining financing very challenging, and we may not have sufficient available cash to finance an acquisition. therefore, we may be unable to identify, finance and complete appropriate acquisitions. similarly, our ability to dispose of our assets may be hindered by our inability to find a suitable purchaser as the result of these market conditions, the pendency of the investigations and related matters or other factors. in addition to general market and financing risks, we are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state or federal agencies when acquiring or disposing of a health plan, which may require a public hearing. we may be unable to comply with the regulatory requirements for an acquisition or disposition in a timely manner, or at all. even if we identify suitable acquisition targets or purchasers for our assets, we may be unable to complete these types of transactions on terms favorable to us, or at all. further, if we complete acquisitions, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from acquisitions because of operational factors or difficulties in integrating the acquisitions with our existing businesses. to the extent that we complete acquisitions, we are likely to incur additional costs or administrative challenges associated with entering into geographic areas in which we do not currently operate or expand into new lines of business. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas or other product lines may also be inhibited by: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary license to operate in the new geographic area or new line of business, if necessary; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; competition, which can increase the costs of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those geographic areas or lines of business; 27 table of contents increased administrative and operational efforts and costs consequential to our establishing new operations for, or our inexperience with, a new line of business or geographic area; and demographics and population density. accordingly, we may be unsuccessful in entering other geographic areas, counties, states or lines of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. the inability or failure to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs could result in operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, underwriting, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, planning and analysis and e-commerce. these systems also support our customer services functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and accurate financial reporting and customer service. there can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. additionally, events outside our control, including acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires or terrorism, could significantly impair our information systems and applications. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary data center operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan that addresses how we recover to an acceptable level of business functionality within stated timelines. due to ongoing document retention requirements, our ability to recover all business functionality in a timely manner may be impaired. therefore, our disaster plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, fines and penalties, possible liability and loss. our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if such breaches are not prevented. we rely on a number of vendors, and failure of any one of the key vendors to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we have contracted with a number of vendors to provide significant assistance in our operational support including, but not limited to, certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties failure to perform adequately under our contracts with them. significant failure by a vendor to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. further, due to our growth, business changes or legal proceedings, our ability to manage these vendors may be impacted. in addition, due to these factors, our vendors may request changes 28 table of contents in pricing, payment terms or other contractual obligations between the parties which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we encounter significant competition for program participation, network providers and members, and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, which may have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is currently subject to significant changes due to business consolidations, changes in regulation that could affect competitors differently, new strategic alliances and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations. we compete principally on the basis of premiums and cost-sharing terms, provider network composition, benefits and medical services provided, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints, and other factors. for a discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate, see part i item 1 business competition. a number of these competitive elements are partially dependent on, and can be positively affected, by financial resources available to a health plan. many other organizations with which we compete have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. competitors with greater financial resources than us may be better positioned than us to withstand rate compression. further, we operate in or may attempt to acquire business in programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable business which could hurt our results of operations. in addition, regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. we may not be able to retain or effectively replace our executive officers, other members of management or associates, and the loss of any one or more members of management and their managed care expertise, or large numbers of associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business. although some of our officers have entered into employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for those officers to continue their employment with us. the loss of the leadership, knowledge and experience of our management teams could have a material adverse effect on our business. replacing one or more of the members of our management team might be difficult or take an extended period of time. we may not be able to retain our executive officers, other members of management or associates due to some limitations in our compensation arrangements. historically, the focus of our compensation program has been on equity awards in the form of restricted stock and stock options. following the commencement of the governmental investigations in october 2007 and the subsequent decline in our stock price, our ability to attract and retain our associates, including our executive officers, whether through equity awards or more generally, became more challenging. to address our retention issues, among other things, we implemented a retention program that expired at the end of 2008, and a severance program that will terminate at the end of 2009. the remaining severance program may not provide sufficient incentives to retain our officers and other associates and we have not established a new severance program to follow after the current program expires in 2009. additionally, we have not established a similar retention program to replace the prior program that expired at the end of 2008 although we have implemented other programs that are designed to have a retentive affect. our success is also dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified management, and technical and medical personnel. the pendency of the ongoing governmental investigations, litigation and related matters and any ongoing restrictions under which we must operate, such as a corporate integrity agreement or third party monitor, could hinder our ability to attract and retain qualified associates. accordingly, all of these factors may impair our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we do not expect to sustain the rapid rate of growth we have achieved during the past five years, which could be viewed unfavorably by investors. over the past five years we have experienced a rapid rate of growth in our business. we do not foresee growth at the same level of prior years primarily because (i) we believe that our historic rates of growth are unsustainable; (ii) at this time we do not foresee large, one-time opportunities to expand our business, such as the launch of pdps and the privatization of georgia medicaid; and (iii) we intend to divert some resources to strengthen our compliance and operating capabilities. furthermore, pressure on premium rates or margins could lead us to selectively exit some markets or products. for example, in 2008 we withdrew from the ohio abd program and in early 2009 we withdrew from the florida medicaid reform counties, in both cases because the premiums we received were insufficient to cover our medical expenses. finally, recent regulatory changes designed to limit the use of direct and other marketing techniques could cause our rate of membership growth to decline. accordingly, our business may experience a period of slower growth or contraction in 2009 and beyond, which may be viewed unfavorably by investors. ineffective or unsuccessful management of our growth, either generally or with respect to specific products or geographic areas, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 table of contents we had total revenue of approximately $1.4 billion and $6.5 billion in 2004 and 2008, respectively. management of our past and future potential growth, either generally or with respect to specific products or geographic areas, could place a significant strain on our management team and other resources. our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to retain and strengthen our management team and attract, train and retain skilled associates, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. we may need to enhance and augment our current systems and operating environment to ensure system and operational reliability as well as compliance with our current and future contracts. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, the initial substantial costs related to growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our providers, we may be precluded from operating in some markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to enter into cost-effective contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers in appropriate numbers and at locations convenient for our members in each of the markets in which we operate. in any particular market, however, providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical benefits expense. in some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions. if such a provider or any of our other providers refused to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate contracts that might not be cost-effective or otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage, those activities could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in that market. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in the long term, our ability to contract successfully with a sufficiently large number of providers in a particular geographic market will affect the relative attractiveness of our managed care products in that market. if we are unsuccessful in negotiating satisfactory contracts with our network providers, it could preclude us from renewing our medicaid or medicare contracts in those markets, from being able to enroll new members or from entering into new markets. also, in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. our provider contracts with network primary care physicians and specialists generally have terms of one to four years, with automatic renewal for successive one-year terms. we may be unable to continue to renew such contracts or enter into new contracts enabling us to serve our members profitably. we are also required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. further, under mippa, we are required to have a network of providers for all of our pffs plans that operate in markets with two or more networked-based plans. currently, we do not have provider networks in the majority of the markets where we offer pffs plans. we are currently evaluating alternative solutions to establishing a network in targeted areas to meet these requirements, including building a contracted network, contracting with a third party network or withdrawing from certain counties where it is not economically or otherwise feasible to establish networks for this line of business. however, if we are unable to establish adequate networks, we will be required to cease offering pffs plans in these areas. finally, we may be unable to maintain our relationships with our network providers or enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our results of operations and profitability could be materially adversely affected. our inability to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property rights in our brand names for our health plans or enforce such rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to market our health plans under our brand names, including wellcare, healthease, staywell, and harmony. we hold a federal trademark registration for the wellcare trademark, and we are pursuing applications with the u.s. patent and trademark office to register healthease and harmony. we use the staywell trademark only in the state of florida, and, pursuant to an agreement in august 2008 with the staywell company, a health education company based in st. paul, minnesota, we will co-exist with their use of that term for very different kinds of services and will not pursue a federal registration of that trademark. it is possible that other businesses may have actual or purported rights in the same names or similar names to those under which we market our health plans, which could limit or prevent our ability to use these names, or our ability to prevent others from using these names. if we are unable to prevent others from using our brand names, if others prohibit us from using such names or if we incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights in such brand names, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. several members of our management team have been recently appointed to their positions, and a lack of familiarity with our company or our industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. during the past year, our management team has undergone a number of changes, including the appointment of several members of senior management, some of whom have limited prior experience with our company or our industry. our operations are highly 30 table of contents dependent on the experience and skills of our management team. our new management team overall lack of familiarity and experience with the company or our industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure of our state regulators to approve payments of dividends and/or distributions from certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows, business and financial condition. on december 31, 2008, three of our florida regulated subsidiaries declared dividends to one of our non-regulated subsidiaries in the aggregate amount of $105.1 million, two of which were paid on december 31, 2008 and one of which was paid on january 2, 2009. in addition, we currently intend to cause certain of our other regulated subsidiaries to declare dividends and/or distributions to us or certain of our non-regulated subsidiaries in an effort to increase our unregulated cash balances. in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. the discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend or intercompany transaction is often not clearly defined. health plans that declare non-extraordinary dividends usually must provide notice to the regulators in advance of the intended distribution date of such dividend. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. claims relating to medical malpractice and other litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. our providers involved in medical care decisions and associates involved in coverage decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. some states have passed or are considering legislation that permits managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations, or eliminates the requirement that providers carry a minimum amount of professional liability insurance. this kind of legislation has the effect of shifting the liability for medical decisions or adverse outcomes to the managed care organization. this could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or could cause us to pay additional premiums to increase our insurance coverage. therefore, successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers or our associates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. from time to time, we are party to various other litigation matters (including the matters discussed in part i item 3 legal proceedings ), some of which seek monetary damages. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we may incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. we maintain errors and omissions policies as well as other insurance coverage. however, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, our insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations, or the amount of our insurance coverage may be inadequate. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future or that insurance will continue to be available to us on a cost-effective basis. moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. the defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management attention. as a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. risks related to our financial condition our senior secured credit facility, which is currently in default and subject to acceleration by the lenders, will become due and payable on may 13, 2009, and we cannot provide any assurances that adverse developments will not arise that would impede our ability to pay the outstanding balance of approximately $152.8 million when it becomes due. our senior secured credit facility with wachovia bank, as administrative agent, and a syndicate of lenders, which has a term loan facility with an outstanding balance of approximately $152.8 million as of december 31, 2008, is currently in default and subject to acceleration by the lenders and, absent acceleration by the lenders, will become due and payable on may 13, 2009. our senior secured credit facility also included a revolving credit facility that expired in may 2008. although we are not in payment default, we are in default of a number of covenants contained in the credit agreement (including our failure to provide the lenders with audited financial statements, our budgets and other requested reports and information, and our inability to maintain certain leverage ratios), some of which cannot be cured prior to maturity of the senior secured credit facility (such as our entry into intercompany loan transactions, which are described in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation, that were not effected in compliance with the credit agreement). as of the date hereof, our payment obligations under the credit agreement have not been accelerated and the rate of interest has not been increased. however, we cannot provide any assurance that such obligations will not be accelerated or the rate of interest increased in the future or that the lenders will not exercise other remedies for default. 31 table of contents we cannot provide any assurances that adverse developments will not arise that impede our ability to repay in full the outstanding balance under the credit facility when it becomes due. in particular, the timing and amount of any potential resolution of pending investigations by the usao, the civil division, the oig and the state of florida are uncertain and could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our near-term obligations, including repayment of the outstanding balance under the credit facility. also, our ability to repay in full the outstanding balance under the credit facility could be materially and adversely affected if, among other things, florida regulators were to require certain of our intercompany loan arrangements which total approximately $50 million to be terminated. in addition, there may be other potential adverse developments that could impede our ability to repay in full the outstanding balance under the credit facility. based on third-party information, we believe that fairholme capital management, l.l.c. ( fairholme ), who also is our largest shareholder, has purchased approximately 67% of the outstanding balance under our term loan facility. as a holder of a majority of the outstanding balance under our term loan facility, fairholme has the ability to require the exercise of remedies for default, including accelerating our payment obligations and/or increasing the rate of interest. if we are unsuccessful in our initiative to raise additional unregulated cash, our unregulated cash balances could deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. we are pursuing financing alternatives to, among other things, increase our unregulated cash balances. financing alternatives that we are pursuing include, but are not limited to, seeking dividends from certain of our regulated subsidiaries to the extent that we are able to access available excess capital and pursuing external financing sources. one or more factors may cause us to be unable to raise additional unregulated cash, including, among others: continued turmoil in the financial markets and general adverse economic conditions make it unlikely that we will be able to obtain financing and also may make it more difficult or prohibitively costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of debt or common stock; the uncertainty created by the ongoing state and federal investigations is adversely affecting our ability to obtain financing; required capital contributions to our regulated subsidiaries are greater than anticipated, resulting from, among other things, lower than expected profitability in our regulated subsidiaries or the imposition of greater capital requirements by state insurance regulators such as the recent request by one of our regulators to contribute a total of approximately $30.0 million in additional statutory capital into two of our hmos; we are unable to obtain the approval of state regulatory authorities to cause certain of our regulated subsidiaries to declare and pay dividends to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries; management fees received by our non-regulated third-party administrator subsidiary are less than anticipated as a result of lower than expected premium revenues in our regulated subsidiaries; the lenders under our senior secured credit facility accelerate repayment of the outstanding indebtedness thereunder; florida regulators require the regulated subsidiaries to terminate certain intercompany loan arrangements in the amount of $50.0 million, as discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation, necessitating the borrowing subsidiary to repay in full the amount owed to the florida regulated subsidiaries, or other restrictions are placed on the use of proceeds from such loans; and/or we are required to pay significant fines or penalties in the near term to resolve one or more of the federal or state investigations or we do not prevail in one or more of the actions described under part i item 3 legal proceedings. if we are unsuccessful in our initiative to raise additional unregulated cash, our unregulated cash balances could deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. recent disruptions in the financial markets and the general economic slowdown could cause us to be unable to obtain financing and expose us to risks related to the overall macro-economic environment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32 table of contents the united states equity and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many equities to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. these circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing, even for companies who are otherwise qualified to obtain financing. these events make it unlikely that we will be able to obtain financing and also may make it more difficult or prohibitively costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of debt or common stock. in addition, due to the general economic slowdown, we may be exposed to risks related to the overall macro-economic environment, including a lower rate of return than we have historically experienced on our invested assets, being limited in our ability to sell or liquidate our invested assets, such as our auction rate securities, and receiving inadequate premium payments from our government payors due to state budget constraints. such risks, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our significant debt obligations, the restrictions under which we operate as set forth in our senior secured credit facility, and our default status under our senior secured credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business strategy, liquidity and cash flow position. we have outstanding indebtedness as of december 31, 2008 of approximately $152.8 million under our senior secured credit facility. as noted above, our senior secured credit facility is currently in default and the lenders have the right to exercise remedies for default, including, among others, accelerating the amounts due under the credit facility, increasing the rate of interest and preventing us from accessing funds held by certain of our regulated subsidiaries. as of the date hereof, the lenders have not exercised any such remedies for default, but we cannot provide any assurance that they will not do so in the future. in the absence of the exercise of remedies by the lenders, our senior secured credit facility becomes due and payable on may 13, 2009. the required repayment of the outstanding balance will materially reduce our outstanding cash balances unless we are able to refinance this debt. our current default status and near term obligation to repay in full the outstanding balance under the credit facility also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business strategy resulting from, among others, the following: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage to our competitors; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and limiting our ability to fund capital expenditures, capital reserve requirements, acquisitions, and general, corporate and other operating purposes. in addition, restrictions and covenants in the documents governing our senior secured credit facility including prescribed fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios and limitations on capital expenditures and acquisitions may cause our financial and operating flexibility to be limited by, among other things, restricting our ability to (i) engage in certain transactions, (ii) incur liens, (iii) declare dividends to shareholders without lender approval, (iv) fund capital expenditures, capital reserve requirements, acquisitions, and general, corporate and other operating purposes, and (v) incurring indebtedness. our failure to comply with covenants in our debt instruments could result in our indebtedness being immediately due and payable and the loss of our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and cash flows. our credit facility is secured by a pledge of substantially all of the assets of our non-regulated entities, which includes the stock of our regulated subsidiaries directly held by our non-regulated entities. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, such as the obligation to provide the lenders audited financial statements, it may result in one or more events of default. as a result of the on-going investigations discussed in note 11, the company has been unable to satisfy a number of its obligations under the credit agreement, including providing audited financial statements, annual financial plans and other information sought by the lenders under the credit agreement. consequently, since november 2007 the company has been in technical default under the terms of this credit agreement. in addition, since september 30, 2008, the company was in default of certain covenants set forth in the credit agreement requiring the company to maintain certain leverage ratios. the company continues to make payments as required, and consequently, there has been no payment default under the terms of the credit agreement. to date, the lenders have not accelerated any amounts outstanding under the credit facility, proceeded against the collateral securing the indebtedness or exercised other remedies, but we cannot assure you that they will not do 33 table of contents so in the future. if the lenders accelerate the amounts outstanding under the credit facility, proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness or exercise other remedies, our business, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. downgrades in our debt ratings may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, access to capital markets, and our ability to obtain alternative financing options. claims paying ability, financial strength and debt ratings by recognized rating organizations are an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of managed-care insurance companies. ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout our industry. we believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are an important factor in promoting our services to certain of our constituents. our debt ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. each of the rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current ratings will be maintained in the future. our ratings reflect each rating agency opinion of our financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to providers. downgrades in our ratings, should they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, access to capital markets, and our ability to obtain alternative financing options. our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. as of december, 31, 2008, all of our long-term investments were comprised of municipal note investments with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities ). these notes are issued by various state and local municipal entities for the purpose of financing student loans, public projects and other activities, which carry investment grade credit ratings. liquidity for these auction rate securities is typically provided by an auction process which allows holders to sell their notes and resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, usually anywhere from seven to 35 days. recently, auctions for some of these auction rate securities have failed and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will continue to succeed. an auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not be matched with an adequate volume of buyers. the securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest at the contractual rate and be auctioned every seven, 14, 28 or 35 days, as the case may be, until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, or they mature. as a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or non-existent. we may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 31 years) to realize our investments recorded value. if the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. risks related to being a regulated entity cms risk adjustment payment system makes our revenue and profitability difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. cms has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for medicare plans to enroll and treat less healthy medicare beneficiaries. cms risk adjustment model bases a portion of the total cms reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors including hospital inpatient diagnoses, diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings, including hospital outpatient facilities and physician visits, gender, age, and medicaid eligibility. cms requires all managed care companies to capture, collect, and report the necessary diagnosis code information to cms. because 100% of medicare advantage premiums are now risk-based, it is more difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue or profitability. in addition, cms establishes premium payments to medicare plans generally at the beginning of the calendar year and then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions during the year on a retroactive basis. the first such adjustments update the risk scores for the current year based on prior year dates of service. the second such adjustment is a final retroactive risk premium settlement for the prior year. as a result of the variability of factors, including plan risk scores, that determine such estimates, the actual amount of cms retroactive payment could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans risk scores for any period and our accrual of premiums related thereto may result in adjustments to our medicare premium revenue and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on february 22, 2008, cms published preliminary results of a study designed to assess the degree of coding pattern differences between original medicare and medicare advantage and the extent to which any such differences could be appropriately addressed by an adjustment to risk scores. cms study of risk scores for medicare populations from 2004 through 2006 found that 34 table of contents medicare advantage member risk scores increased substantially more than the risk scores for the general medicare fee-for-service population. cms found that the overall risk scores of stayers (a cms term referring to those persons who were enrolled either in the same medicare advantage plan or in original medicare during the study periods) in medicare advantage increased more than those of original medicare stayers. accordingly, in the 2009 advance notice of methodological changes for calendar year 2009 for medicare advantage capitation rates and part d payment policies, cms summarized findings from its analysis of risk scores over the 2004-2006 time period and proposed to apply a coding difference adjustment to contracts whose disease scores for stayers exceeded fee-for-service by twice the industry average. the agency proposed to apply an adjustment that was calculated based on those contracts that fell above the threshold. in response to the advance notice, cms received a significant number of comments on the proposed adjustment for medicare advantage coding differences, most of which disagreed with the view that cms had identified differences in coding patterns between medicare advantage and fee-for-service medicare. cms then decided not to make a coding intensity adjustment for 2009. on february 20, 2009, cms published the 45-day advance notice for the 2010 preliminary rating methodology. for calendar year 2010, a negative coding intensity adjustment factor will apply to all managed care plans. plans will receive final rates for 2010 in april 2009. if the coding intensity adjustment factor is implemented as proposed, this would result in a significant decrease in our medicare revenues. reductions in funding for government health care programs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. all of the health care services we offer are through government-sponsored programs, such as medicaid and medicare. as a result, our profitability is dependent, in large part, on continued funding for government health care programs at or above current levels. for example, the premium rates paid by each state to health plans like ours differ depending on a combination of factors such as upper payment limits established by the state and federal governments, a member health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix and member eligibility categories. future medicaid premium rate levels may be affected by continued government efforts to contain medical costs or state and federal budgetary constraints. some of the states in which we operate have experienced fiscal challenges leading to significant budget deficits. according to the national association of state budget officers, medicaid spending consumes approximately one-quarter of the average state budget, representing the second largest expenditure. health care spending increases appear to be more limited than in the past, states continue to look at medicaid programs as opportunities for budget savings and some states may find it difficult to continue paying current rates to medicaid health plans. changes in medicaid funding may lead to reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for medicaid, reductions in the amount of reimbursement or elimination of coverage for certain benefits such as pharmacy, behavioral health or other benefits. in some cases, changes in funding could be made retroactive, in which case we may be required to return premiums already received or receive reduced future payments. in the recent past, all of the states in which we operate have implemented or considered legislation or regulations that would reduce reimbursement rates, payment levels, benefits covered or the number of persons eligible for medicaid. reductions in medicaid payments could reduce our profitability if we are unable to reduce our expenses at the same rate. further, continued economic slowdowns in our markets have negatively impacted state revenues. the number of persons eligible to receive medicaid benefits may grow more slowly or even decline more rapidly or in tandem with declining economic conditions. for example, the governments that oversee the medicaid programs could choose to limit program eligibility in an effort to reduce the portion of their respective state budgets attributable to medicaid, which would cause our membership and revenues to decrease. therefore, declining general economic conditions may cause our membership levels to decrease even further, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the states may also develop future medicaid capitation rates that, while actuarially sound, are insufficient to keep pace with medical trends or inflation, therefore reducing our profitability in those markets and materially adversely affecting our results of operations. we are experiencing pressure on rates in florida and georgia, two states from which we derive a substantial portion of our revenue. in 2009, florida implemented medicaid rates that made it economically unfeasible for us to continue to participate in the medicaid reform programs. as a result, we notified the state of florida that we were withdrawing from these programs effective july 1, 2009, which will result in a loss of approximately 80,000 members. new legislation in georgia related to payment of claims, eligibility determination and provider contracting, may negatively impact revenues and profits for the plan in 2009 and beyond. further, continued economic slowdowns in florida and georgia, as well as other states, could result in additional state actions that could adversely affect our revenues. similar to medicaid, reductions in payments under medicare or the other programs under which we offer health plans could likewise reduce our profitability. the mma permits premium levels for certain medicare plans to be established through competitive bidding, with congress retaining the ability to limit increases in premium levels established through bidding from year to year. the federal government also has passed legislation that phases out medicare advantage budget neutrality payments through 2011, which impacts premium increases over that timeframe. the u.s. congress is considering other reductions to rates or other changes to medicare part d which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. cms recently announced preliminary 2010 medicare advantage payment rates which are between 4% and 5% below 2009 rates. assuming the 20% physician rate cut implicit in the rates is not enacted, the following are among the events that are likely to occur: member benefits will be reduced; member 35 table of contents premiums will be increased; and margins will decline. these events are likely to have a negative affect on our 2010 operating results and membership. in january 2009, the new presidential administration took office. although the new administration and recently elected u.s. congress have expressed some support for measures intended to expand the number of citizens covered by health insurance and other changes within the health care system, the costs of implementing any of these proposals could be financed, in part, by reductions in the payments made to under medicare and other government programs. similarly, although the u.s. congress approved the children health bill which, among things, increases federal funding to s-chip and president obama signed the american recovery and reinvestment act that provides funding for, among other things, state medicaid programs and aid to states to help defray budget cuts, because of the unsettled nature of these initiatives, the numerous steps required to implement them and the substantial amount of state flexibility for determining how medicaid and s-chip funds will be used, we are currently unable to assess the ultimate impact that they will have on our business. we are subject to extensive government regulation, and any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to periodic reviews and audits under our contracts with state government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings which may have a material adverse effect on our business. we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services. pursuant to these contracts, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future service or geographic expansion; and suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several departments of insurance and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. in 2008, cms completed its routine comprehensive audit of all of our medicare operations. cms audit report indicates that we are deficient in a number of areas. we implemented corrective action plans to address cms findings, but in february 2009, cms notified us that, effective march 7, 2009, we have been sanctioned through a suspension of marketing to medicare beneficiaries and enrollments into all lines of our medicare business. this suspension will remain in effect until cms determines that the suspension should be lifted. among other areas, cms decision was based on findings of deficiencies in our enrollment and disenrollment operations; appeals and grievances; timely and proper responses to beneficiary complaints and requests for assistance; and marketing and agent/broker oversight activities. we are working closely with cms to address their concerns. at this time, we cannot provide any assurances regarding the duration of the suspension or the ultimate impact it will have on our results of operations and our business. nonetheless, we anticipate that our inability to perform marketing activities to medicare beneficiaries, or enroll new medicare members into our plans, as well as any actions that we take in response to the sanctions, will have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and business in 2009 and potentially beyond. we are subject to laws and government regulations that may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to shareholders. 36 table of contents we are subject to state laws regarding insurers and hmos that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance subsidiary. for purposes of these laws, in most states control is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our shareholders find favorable. we are subject to extensive fraud and abuse laws which may give rise to lawsuits and claims against us, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know or it is found that we should have known that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent, and some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. in a letter dated october 15, 2008, the civil division informed counsel to the special committee that as part of the pending civil inquiry, the civil division is investigating a number of qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act, 31 u.s.c. sections 3729-3733. the seal in those cases has been partially lifted for the purpose of authorizing the civil division to disclose to us the existence of the qui tam complaints. the complaints otherwise remain under seal as required by 31 u.s.c. section 3730(b)(3). we and the special committee are undertaking to discuss with the civil division, and address, allegations by the qui tam relators. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action on october 25, 2007 in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. because qui tam actions brought under federal and state false claims acts are sealed by the court at the time of filing, we are unable to determine the nature of the allegations and, therefore, we do not know at this time whether this action relates to the subject matter of the federal investigations. it is possible that additional qui tam actions have been filed against us and are under seal. thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure under the false claims act, or similar state statutes, based on qui tam actions other than those discussed in this 2008 form 10-k. we can give no assurances that we will not be subject to civil actions and enforcement proceedings under these federal and state statutes and regulations in the future. any such claims, proceedings or violations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. if state regulatory agencies require a higher statutory capital level for our existing operations or if we become subject to additional capital requirements, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to our regulated subsidiaries, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our operations are conducted through licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries. these subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. one or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. for example, new york adopted regulations that increase the capital reserve requirement by 150% over an eight-year period. the phased-in increase in reserve requirements to which our new york plan is subject will, over time, materially increase our reserve requirements in new york. other states may elect to adopt risk-based capital requirements based on guidelines adopted by the naic. as of december 31, 2008, our operations in connecticut, georgia, illinois, indiana, louisiana, missouri and ohio, and our pdp and pffs operations, were subject to such guidelines. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory net worth due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members. in addition, as we continue to expand our plan offerings in new states or pursue new business opportunities, we may be required to make additional statutory capital contributions. in either case, any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our 37 table of contents liquidity, cash flows and growth potential, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy by, for example, hindering our ability to make debt service payments on amounts drawn from our credit facilities. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue to be profitable. for example, we recently evaluated the capitalization requirement for our pffs plans and determined that it was economically prudent to withdraw from participation in these plans in texas, florida and wisconsin since the capital requirements for these states applied to the subsidiary as a whole, effectively increasing the capital requirements for several other states operating under the same license. if we restructure our insurance licenses for florida, texas and wisconsin such that the capital requirements apply only to the business in those states, we may re-consider our interest in offering products in those states. accordingly, effective january 1, 2009 we exited the pffs business in these three states in which we provided services to approximately 10,000 members. additionally, one or more of our regulators could require one or more of our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of the amount required under the applicable state laws if the regulators were to determine that such a requirement were in the interest of our members. for example, a state regulator recently notified us that in its view, notwithstanding a parental guarantee that has been in place since 2006, two of our hmos should contribute a total of approximately $30.0 million in additional statutory capital. we are currently discussing this request with the regulator. we derive a substantial portion of our medicare revenues from our pdp operations, and legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions, bidding results or other factors that adversely affect those pdp operations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. we derive a substantial portion of our medicare revenues from our pdp operations. our ability to operate our pdp plans profitably depends on our ability to attract members, to price our plans appropriately, to continue to develop core systems and processes, to manage our medical expenses related to these plans and other factors. we do not know whether we will be able to sustain our pdp operations profitability over the long-term, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. there are numerous factors that could have a materially adverse effect on our pdp operations, as well our medicare part d and other plans in general. those that are particularly applicable to our pdp operations include: risk corridors : the mma provides for risk corridors that are designed to limit to some extent the losses pdp plans would incur if the medical expenses exceed the reimbursement to be received from cms. these risk corridors are designed to widen over time. the risk corridors for 2006 and 2007 provided more protection against excess losses than are available for 2008 and future years as the thresholds increase and the reimbursement percentages decrease. reimbursement or other reconciliations from cms could be delayed, which could cause us to incur more up-front costs for operating the program. annual bidding: along with other part d plans, including pdps and ma-pds, we bid on part d benefits in june each year. based on the bids submitted, cms establishes a national benchmark. plans that bid below the benchmark are eligible to have members automatically assigned to them. consequently, our ability to bid below the benchmark impacts our ability to receive automatically assigned members. as previously described, we bid above the cms benchmark in 22 of the 34 cms regions for plan year 2009 and are ineligible to receive auto-assigned members in these regions. as a result, 252,000 auto-assigned dual-eligible members were assigned away from our plans and approximately 28,000 low-income subsidized members disenrolled from our plans in january 2009. competition: we have encountered competition from other pdp plans, some of which may have significantly greater resources and brand recognition than we do, and new pdp plans are entering the business. during the annual bidding process described above, we compete with other plans to bid below the cms benchmark for auto-assigned members. during the annual open-enrollment period, we compete with other pdp plans to obtain members who can select their pdp plan. we cannot predict whether we will be able to continue to compete effectively in this market. those factors that apply to all of our medicare plans, including pdp and part d, include: membership: medicare beneficiaries who are dual-eligibles generally are able to disenroll and choose another pdp plan at any time, and certain other medicare beneficiaries also may have a limited ability to disenroll from the plan they initially select and choose a different pdp plan. all medicare beneficiaries are able to change pdp plans during the annual open enrollment period. we may not be able to retain the auto-assigned members or those members who affirmatively choose our pdp plans, and we may not be able to attract new pdp members. benefits expense: we may experience higher benefits expense as a result of an increase in the cost of pharmaceuticals, possible changes in our pharmacy rebate program with drug manufacturers, higher than expected utilization and new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes that increase our costs. 38 table of contents regulatory and administration : cms may alter the medicare part d program in a manner that could be detrimental to us. utilization of benefits : we make actuarial assumptions about the utilization of benefits in our pdp plans. because our membership mix changes in this program from year to year, our assumptions are based on data that may not be applicable to our current pdp membership base and we cannot assure you that these assumptions will prove to be correct or that premiums will be sufficient to cover the benefits provided. several changes to the medicare program resulting from the mippa legislation that became effective in 2008 could increase competition for our existing and prospective members and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on july 15, 2008, mippa became law and in september 2008 cms promulgated enabling regulations. mippa impacts a broad range of medicare activities and impacts all types of medicare managed care plans. all of the changes imposed on us by mippa, including those discussed below, have the potential to cause us to incur additional administrative expense, lose membership and ultimately reduce our medicare revenues, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations: pffs plans: mippa revises requirements for medicare advantage pffs plans, which may have the effect of ending some of these plans in plan year 2011 where such plans are not able to comply with these new requirements. in particular, mippa requires all pffs plans that operate in markets with two or more networked-based plans must be offered on a networked basis. currently, we do not have provider networks in the majority of the markets where we offer pffs plans. we are currently evaluating alternative solutions to establishing a network in targeted areas to meet these requirements, including building a contracted network, contracting with a third party network or withdrawing from certain counties where it is not economically or otherwise feasible to establish networks for this line of business . sales and marketing : mippa places prohibitions and limitations on specified sales and marketing activities under medicare advantage and prescription drug plans. among other things, medicare plans are no longer permitted to make unsolicited contact with potential members by way of outbound telemarketing and community marketing, offer other types of medicare products to existing members, provide meals to potential enrollees or approach potential members in common or public areas. these changes are likely to increase our administrative costs of enrolling an individual, and could increase the risk of compliance violations and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enroll new medicare members particularly because we have historically relied to a large extent on outbound telemarketing and community marketing to sell our products. although we utilized alternative marketing methods during the most recent medicare enrollment period, we are continuing to evaluate and assess how these mippa changes will affect our ability to obtain medicare advantage members and how we will use the most effective alternative marketing methods allowed under mippa to educate potential members regarding our products and services. special needs plans : a significant portion of our coordinated care plan membership is enrolled in our d-snps. under mippa, d-snps such as ours are required to contract with state medicaid agencies to coordinate benefits. the scope of the d-snp contract with the state medicaid agency will depend greatly on what eligibility categories, cost-sharing responsibilities and payment limitations each state has included in its state plan. the contracting process under mippa provides an opportunity for d-snps and states to improve the coordination of benefits, including defining the overlap between medicaid and medicare benefits, eligibility verification processes, payment and coverage responsibilities, marketing and enrollment standards, appeals and grievances procedures and other important operational considerations. collaboration between states and d-snps is expected to create administrative efficiencies and improve beneficiary health outcomes. however, the requirement to contract with state medicaid agencies imposes potential risk for d-snp providers such as us because mippa does not allow expansion in 2010 or continued operation of a d-snp after 2010 if a state and the d-snp provider cannot come to agreement on terms. compensation : mippa also establishes limits on agent and broker compensation. the cms implementing regulations require that plans that pay commissions do so by paying for an initial year commission and residual commissions for each of the five subsequent renewal years, thereby creating a six year commission cycle for members moving from original medicare and a five year commission cycle for members moving from another medicare advantage plan. reductions or delays in federal and state funding for health care programs could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. the federal government and many states from time to time consider reducing the level of funding for government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. for example, the deficit reduction act of 2005, signed into law on february 8, 2006, includes reductions in federal medicaid spending by approximately $4.8 billion and reductions to medicare spending by approximately $6.4 billion over a period of five years, according to the congressional budget office. the act reduces spending by cutting medicaid payments for prescription drugs and 39 table of contents gives states new power to reduce or reconfigure benefits. this law may also lead to lower medicaid reimbursements in some states. states also periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend for medicaid and other programs. in recent years, the majority of states have implemented measures to restrict medicaid and other health care programs costs and eligibility. changes to medicaid and other health care programs could reduce the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for these programs, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or health care costs under those programs, all of which could have a negative impact on our business. we believe that reductions in medicaid and other health care program payments could substantially reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds; such cancellations could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. premiums are contractually payable to us before or during the month for services that we are obligated to provide to our members. our cash flow would be negatively impacted if premium payments are delayed or not made according to contract terms. our contracts with the states in which we operate are subject to cancellation by the state in the event of inadequate program funding contained within such state budget, and are also subject to decreases or limited increases in premiums, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and free cash available for operations and capital reserve requirements. if a state in which we operate approves a budget that includes inadequate program funding, our contracts with that state are subject to cancellation by the state. in some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs. budget problems in the states in which we operate could result in decreases or limited increases in the premiums paid to us by the states. in some instances, it may result in the postponement of payment until additional funding sources are available. for example and as described above, in february 2009, we determined that it was economically unfeasible for us to continue participating in the medicaid reform program after florida notified us that it was reducing our reimbursement rates. consequently, we notified the state of florida that we were withdrawing from the medicaid reform program effective july 1, 2009, which will result in a loss of approximately 80,000 members. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and free cash available for operations and capital reserve requirements. we are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, and we have not yet determined what our total compliance costs will be; however, such costs, when determined, could be more than anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. regulations under hipaa require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information within our company and with third parties, such as health care providers, business associates and our members. these regulations include standards for common health care transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, and payment information; unique identifiers for providers and employers; security; privacy; and enforcement. hipaa also provides that to the extent that state laws impose stricter privacy standards than hipaa privacy regulations, a state seeks and receives an exception from the department of health and human services regarding certain state laws, or state laws concern certain specified areas, such state standards and laws will not be preempted. we have implemented and are continuing to implement security policies and procedures to strive to achieve and maintain compliance with the security standards. given hipaa complexity and the possibility that the regulations may change and may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with any of the hipaa requirements is uncertain. furthermore, a state ability to promulgate stricter laws, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of such state requirements, make compliance with applicable health information laws more difficult. normal health plan operations require that we transmit protected health information via electronic or other means, often at the direction of and based on information provided by third parties, such as our providers, that could result in inadvertent violations of hipaa privacy or security rules. in march 2008, management learned that, in accordance with a contractual requirement, a company web developer had transmitted a document folder containing reports for the georgia department of community health ( dch ) to two production ports, one of which, unbeknownst to the web developer, was not secure. consequently, data, including protected information, unintentionally was made accessible through the internet. we incurred considerable remediation expenses in this matter and, on june 11, 2008, we paid $725,000 in response to a notification of breach and assessment of liquidated damages issued by dch. our efforts to comply with hipaa and to remediate any violations of hipaa, including any fines and penalties, could cause us to incur substantial costs which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. 40 table of contents future changes in health care law may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. health care laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our profitability, among other things, by: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to undergo a corporate restructuring; increasing mandated benefits; limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; requiring us to develop plans to guard against the financial insolvency of our providers; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may materially adversely affect our profitability. requirements relating to managed care consumer protection standards, including increased plan information disclosure, limits to premium increases, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim payment timing, physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or continue to be under discussion. new health care reform legislation may require us to change the way we operate our business, which may be costly. further, although we strive to exercise care in structuring our operations to attempt to comply in all material respects with the laws and regulations applicable to us, government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing such laws and/or regulations have in the past asserted and may in the future assert that we or transactions in which we are involved are in violation of these laws, or courts may ultimately interpret such laws in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. therefore, it is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under the medicaid, medicare and s-chip programs and to continue to serve our members and attract new members, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. state regulatory restrictions on our marketing activities may constrain our membership growth and our ability to increase our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect in our results of operations. although we enroll some of our new members through automatic enrollment programs and voluntary member enrollment, we rely on our marketing and sales efforts for a significant portion of our membership growth. all of the states in which we currently operate permit advertising and, in most cases, direct sales but impose strict requirements and limitations as to the types of marketing activities that are permitted. for example, in florida, we were recently subject to a 60-day marketing freeze in three counties resulting from the state allegation of wrongful marketing practices. in addition, the state of georgia does not permit direct sales by medicaid health plans. in georgia, we advertise our plans, but we rely on member selection and auto-assignment of medicaid members into our plans. effective january 1, 2009, all plans participating in the florida medicaid program are prohibited from directly selling their plans to medicaid recipients. in circumstances where our marketing efforts are prohibited or curtailed, we may incur additional administrative expense in trying to obtain members and our ability to increase or sustain membership could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory medicaid enrollment in managed care plans. states may mandate medicaid enrollment into managed care through cms-approved plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state 41 table of contents plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by the government to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by the government. from time to time, states require us to reimburse them for premiums that we received from the states based on an eligibility list that a state later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program or have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. for example, in july 2008, we continued to receive premiums from the state of florida for members that had become eligible for both medicaid and medicare benefits. once a recipient becomes dually eligible, their premium is primarily remitted by cms rather than the state. in this case, the state of florida had not properly reduced the amount of premium they paid to us to reflect that cms was now the primary payor. our review of all remittance files to identify potential duplicate members, members that should be terminated and members for which we have been paid an incorrect rate may not identify all such members. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our profitability would be reduced as a result of the state failure to pay us for related payments to providers we made and we were unable to recoup such payments from the providers. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupments exceeds our reserves, our revenues and profits could be materially reduced and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our failure to maintain accreditations could disqualify us from participation in the certain state medicaid programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. several of our medicaid contracts require that our plans or subcontracted providers be accredited by independent accrediting organizations that are focused on improving the quality of health care services. accreditation by aaahc or comparable accreditation is a requirement for participation in the florida medicaid program. further, florida medicaid plans can only subcontract behavioral health services to a urac-accredited organization. accreditation by ncqa is a requirement for participation in the georgia medicaid managed care program and the hawaii medicaid program requires that participating plans be either ncqa or urac accredited. our florida health plans are accredited by the aaahc and our behavioral health subsidiary to which we subcontract behavioral health services is accredited by urac. in july 2008, as required by the terms of our medicaid contract, our georgia health plan was awarded accredited status by ncqa. under the terms of our medicaid contract, we have until january 1, 2012 to obtain ncqa accreditation in hawaii. failure to maintain our aaahc or urac accreditations in florida or ncqa accreditation in georgia could disqualify us from participation in the florida and georgia medicaid businesses, respectively. similarly, failure to obtain ncqa accreditation in hawaii by january 1, 2012 could disqualify us from participation in the hawaii medicaid program. there can be no assurance that we will maintain, or obtain, our ncqa, urac or aaahc accreditations, and the loss of, or failure to obtain, these accreditations could adversely our ability to participate in certain medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. risks related to our common stock future sales, or the availability for sale, of our common stock may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. as of december 31, 2008, we had outstanding options to purchase 4,278,118 shares of our common stock, of which 1,463,630 were exercisable, at a weighted average exercise price of $39.26 per share. from time to time, we may issue additional options to associates, non-employee directors, consultants and others pursuant to our equity incentive plans. 42 table of contents the provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and make it more difficult for a stockholder to elect directors of its choosing. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and provisions of applicable delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests, make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that stockholders may consider unfavorable. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, we had short-term investments of $70.1 million and $253.9 million, respectively. at december 31, 2008, we had investments classified as long-term in the amount of $55.0 million. we also had restricted investments of $199.3 million and $89.2 million, at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which consist principally of restricted deposits in accordance with regulatory requirements. the short-term investments consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and 12 months as well as longer term bonds with floating interest rates that are considered available for sale. restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their short-term nature, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2008, the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by less than $0.8 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2008 would result in an increase of the fair value of our investments by less than $0.1 million.qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk . as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, we had short-term investments of $253.9 million and $126.4 million, respectively, and investments classified as long-term of $89.2 million and $53.4 million, respectively, which consist principally of restricted deposits in accordance with regulatory requirements. the short-term investments consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and 12 months as well as longer term bonds with floating interest rates that are considered available for sale. long-term restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their short-term nature, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2007, the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by less than $2.3 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2007 would result in an increase of the fair value of our investments by less than $2.6 million.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. in addition, although for ease of reading we have categorized our risk factors as relating to pending governmental investigations and litigation, business, being a regulated entity, and our common stock, it is important to recognize that as a regulated entity, many of these risks are necessarily related to each other and should not be viewed as separate and distinct. 22 table of contents risks related to pending governmental investigations and litigation any resolution of the ongoing investigations being conducted by certain federal and state agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in 2009 we entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa ) with the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida (the usao ) and the florida attorney general's office. the dpa resolved previously disclosed investigations by those offices. in 2009 we also consented to the entry of a final judgment against us in the u.s. district court for the middle district of florida (the consent and final judgment ) to resolve the previously disclosed informal investigation conducted by the sec. however, we remain under investigation by the civil division of the u.s. department of justice (the civil division ) and the office of inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services (the oig ). for more information regarding the dpa and the consent and final judgment, please see part i item 3 legal proceedings. we remain engaged in resolution discussions as to matters under review with the civil division and the oig. any resolution of the ongoing investigations being conducted by these agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. as previously disclosed, we have paid the usao a total of $80.0 million pursuant to the terms of the dpa. pursuant to the consent and final judgment, we agreed to pay a penalty of $10.0 million to the sec. based on the current status of matters and all information known to us to date, management estimates that we have a liability of approximately $60.0 million plus interest associated with the matters remaining under investigation. we anticipate these amounts will be payable in installments over a period of four to five years. in accordance with fair value accounting guidance, we discounted the liability and recorded it at its current fair value of approximately $55.9 million. this amount remains accrued in our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2009 within the short and long term portions of amounts accrued related to investigation resolution line items. the final timing, terms and conditions of a resolution of these matters may differ from those currently anticipated, which may result in an adjustment to our recorded amounts. these adjustments may be material. we cannot provide an estimable range of additional amounts, if any, nor can we provide assurances regarding the timing, terms and conditions of any potential negotiated resolution of pending investigations by the civil division or the oig. in addition, we have responded to subpoenas issued by the state of connecticut attorney general's office involving transactions between us and our affiliates and their potential impact on the costs of connecticut's medicaid program. we do not know whether, or the extent to which, any pending investigations will result in the imposition of operating restrictions on our business. if we were to plead guilty to or be convicted of a health care related charge, potential adverse consequences could include revocation of our licenses, termination of one or more of our contracts and/or exclusion from further participation in medicare or medicaid programs. in addition, we could be required to operate under a corporate integrity agreement, which could require us to operate under significant restrictions, place substantial burdens on our management, hinder our ability to attract and retain qualified associates and cause us to incur significant costs. further, the majority of our contracts pursuant to which we provide medicare and medicaid services contain provisions that grant the regulator broad authority to terminate at will contracts with any entity affiliated with a convicted entity or for other reasons. any such outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the pendency of these investigations as well as the litigation described below could also impair our ability to raise additional capital, which may be needed to pay any resulting interest, civil or criminal fines, penalties or other assessments. the dpa requires us to retain an independent monitor at our expense for a period of 18 months which could divert management's time from the operation of our business and which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. we have retained an independent monitor (the monitor ), at our expense, for a period of 18 months from his retention in august 2009. the monitor was selected by the usao after consultation with us. operating under the oversight of the monitor may result in substantial burdens on our management, as well as hinder our ability to attract and retain qualified associates. we currently cannot estimate the costs that we are likely to incur in connection with the retention of the monitor, including costs related to implementing any remedial measures recommended by the monitor. in addition, the monitor may recommend significant changes to our policies and procedures, the consequences of which we are unable to predict. our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any such costs, remedial measures and/or changes to our policies and procedures. 23 table of contents if we commit a material breach of the dpa, we will likely be convicted of one or more criminal offenses, including health care fraud, which would cause us to be excluded from certain programs and would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse affect on our results of operations. pursuant to the dpa, the usao filed a one-count criminal information (the information ) in the united states district court for the middle district of florida (the court ), charging us with conspiracy to commit health care fraud against the florida medicaid program in connection with reporting of expenditures under certain community behavioral health contracts, and against the florida healthy kids programs, under certain contracts, in violation of 18 u.s.c. section 1349. the usao recommended to the court that the prosecution of us be deferred during the duration of the dpa. in the event of a knowing and willful material breach of a provision of the dpa, the usao has broad discretion to prosecute us through the filed information or otherwise. we could also be prosecuted by the florida attorney general's office under such circumstances. in light of the provisions of the dpa, any such proceeding would likely result in one or more criminal convictions, including for health care fraud, which, in turn, would cause us to be excluded from certain programs and could result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse affect on our results of operations. we and certain of our past officers and directors are defendants in litigation relating to our participation in federal health care programs, accounting practices and other related matters, and the outcome of these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. putative class action complaints were filed against us, as well as certain of our past and present officers and directors on october 26, 2007 and on november 2, 2007, alleging, among other things, numerous violations of securities laws. subsequent developments in these cases are described below in part i item 3 legal proceedings. in addition, five putative shareholder derivative actions were filed between october 29, 2007 and november 15, 2007. all five actions contend, among other things, that the defendants allegedly allowed or caused us to misrepresent our reported financial results, in amounts unspecified in the pleadings, and seek damages and equitable relief for, among other things, the defendants' supposed breach of fiduciary duty, waste and unjust enrichment. in april 2009, the board formed a special litigation committee, comprised of a newly-appointed independent director, to investigate the facts and circumstances underlying the claims asserted in the federal and state derivative cases and to take such action with respect to such claims as the special litigation committee determines to be in our best interests. in november 2009, the special litigation committee filed a report with the court finding, among other things, that we should pursue an action against three of our former officers. additional information with respect to these cases is described below in part i item 3 legal proceedings. in addition, in a letter dated october 15, 2008, the civil division informed counsel to a special committee formed by the board (the special committee ) that as part of the pending civil inquiry, the civil division is investigating a number of qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act, 31 u.s.c. sections 3729-3733. the seal in those cases has been partially lifted for the purpose of authorizing the civil division to disclose to us the existence of the qui tam complaints. the complaints otherwise remain under seal as required by 31 u.s.c. section 3730(b)(3). we are discussing with the civil division the allegations by the qui tam relators. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action on october 25, 2007 in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. because qui tam actions brought under federal and state false claims acts are sealed by the court at the time of filing, we are unable to determine the nature of the allegations and, therefore, we do not know whether this action relates to the subject matter of the federal investigations. it is possible that additional qui tam actions have been filed against us and are under seal. thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure under the false claims act, or similar state statutes, based on qui tam actions other than those discussed in this 2009 form 10-k. at this time, we cannot predict the probable outcome of these claims. these and other potential actions that may be filed against us, whether with or without merit, may divert the attention of management from our business, harm our reputation and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for a discussion of the aforementioned proceedings, see part i item 3 legal proceedings. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation, including the matters discussed in part i item 3 legal proceedings. in connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors, officers and associates and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. certain of these obligations may not be covered matters under our directors and officers' liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. further, in the event the directors, officers and associates are ultimately determined to not be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover the amounts we previously advanced to them. 24 table of contents in addition, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with the pending investigations and litigation. we maintain directors and officers liability insurance in the amounts of $45.0 million for indemnifiable claims and $10.0 million for non-indemnifiable securities claims. we have met the retention limits under these policies. we also maintain insurance in the amount of $175.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. due to these insurance coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification and other obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. continuing negative publicity regarding the investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. as a result of the ongoing federal and state investigations, shareholder and derivative litigation, restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. this negative publicity may harm our relationships with current and future investors, government regulators, associates, members, vendors and providers. for example, it is possible that the negative publicity and its effect on our work environment could cause our associates to terminate their employment or, if they remain employed by us, result in reduced morale that could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and, therefore, associates and prospective associates may also consider our stability and the value of any equity incentives when making decisions regarding employment opportunities. additionally, negative publicity may adversely affect our reputation, which could harm our ability to obtain new membership, build or maintain our network of providers, or business in the future. for example, when making award determinations, states frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance and reputation. as a result, continuing negative publicity regarding the investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. the investigations and related matters have diverted, and could divert in the future, management's attention, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition to the challenges of the various government investigations and extensive litigation we face, our management team has spent considerable time and effort with regard to internal and external investigations involving our historical accounting practices and internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. it is possible that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and general counsel, in particular, as well as senior members of our finance and legal departments, will spend considerable time and effort with regard to the investigations and related matters. the significant time and effort spent by our management team on these matters has diverted, and could divert in the future, its attention, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to our business if our government contracts are not renewed or are renewed on substantially different terms, are terminated or become subject to an enrollment or marketing freeze, are canceled by the state due to, among other reasons, inadequate program funding contained within such state's budget, or are subjected to decreases or limited increases in premiums, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we provide our medicaid, medicare, s-chip and other services through a limited number of contracts with state, federal or local government agencies. these contracts generally have terms of one to five years and are subject to non-renewal by the applicable government agency. all of our government contracts are terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. our federal and state government contracts are generally subject to cancellation, non-renewal or a potential freeze on marketing or enrollment in the event of the unavailability of adequate program funding, compliance violations and for other reasons. in some jurisdictions, a cancellation or enrollment freeze may be immediate, while in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. for example, during 2009, cms imposed an immediate, nine-month marketing sanction against us that prohibited us from the marketing of, and enrollment of members into, all lines of our medicare business. this sanction reduced our revenue as we were unable to enroll new members during this period and the sanction has prevented us from receiving auto-assigned membership in january 2010, which is generally the month with the most auto-assigned members as it is the start of the medicare plan year. in addition, we incurred additional administrative costs to correct and remediate areas in which cms determined we were deficient. 25 table of contents the risk of program cancellation or decreases in premium is heightened during economic environments such as we are now experiencing as state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs. budget problems in the states in which we operate could result in premium rates that are inadequate to fund the required benefits. states may also postpone payment until additional funding sources are available, which to the extent we have paid amounts to providers, would materially and adversely impact our liquidity. in some jurisdictions cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. in the event a state imposes additional contract terms on us or otherwise makes changes to the contract that impact the economic feasibility of the contract, we may decide to terminate the contract. for example, in january 2009, we determined that it was economically infeasible for us to continue participating in the florida medicaid reform program after florida notified us that it was reducing our reimbursement rates. consequently, we withdrew from the florida medicaid reform program effective july 1, 2009, which resulted in a loss of approximately 80,000 members. however, we may not be able to terminate our state contracts without a lengthy notice period. some of the states in which we operate have extended the period in which we are obligated to serve our members after we notify the state that we intend to exit. for example, ohio has recently extended the required exit period in our contract from 120 days to 240 days. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, or amend the contract to our detriment, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, cash available for operations and compliance with capital reserve requirements. some of our contracts are also subject to termination or are only eligible for renewal through annual competitive bidding processes. for example, renewal of our pdp business is subject to an annual bidding process. for 2010, we bid above the cms benchmark in 15 of the 34 cms regions and are ineligible to receive auto-assigned members in these regions in 2010. as a comparison, we bid above the cms benchmark in 22 of the regions in 2009. if we are unable to renew, re-bid or compete successfully for any of our existing or potential government contracts, or if any of our contracts are terminated, or if any limitations or restrictions are imposed, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. to the extent that our encounter data is inaccurate or incomplete, we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct this data and have been and could be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties potentially including regulatory risk for noncompliance. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards, which are partly used by states to set premium rates. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. on other occasions, there may be a period of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. for example, the georgia department of community health ( dch ) requires all plans to satisfy specific requirements regarding the quality and volume of encounter data, including a requirement that all plans submit at least 98% of their encounters based on value of claims paid. failure to satisfy these requirements could result in the imposition of fines, penalties or other operating restrictions until such time as all requirements have been met. dch has engaged a third party to conduct an audit and reconciliation of our encounter submissions to determine our current and on-going level of compliance with contractual encounter submission requirements. during 2009, dch fined our georgia plan an aggregate of $0.7 million due to our continued failure to submit encounter data as required. it is likely that our compliance will take additional time during which regulators may impose additional fines or penalties or take other action against us as a result of our lack of encounter data submission compliance. as states increase their reliance on encounter data, challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. negative publicity regarding the managed care industry may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the managed care industry historically has been subject to negative publicity. this publicity may result in increased legislation, regulation and review of industry practices and, in some cases, litigation. for example, the obama administration and certain members of congress have been questioning the profits of health insurance plans and the percentage of premiums paid that are going directly to health care benefits. these inquiries have resulted in news reports that are generally negative to the health insurance industry. these factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and services, require us to change our products and services and increase regulatory or legal burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 26 table of contents cms will subject us to targeted monitoring and heightened surveillance and oversight of all of our operational areas during the upcoming open enrollment periods, which could subject us to new sanctions or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. in connection with its removal of the marketing and enrollment sanction, cms informed us that it would subject us to targeted monitoring and heightened surveillance and oversight of all of our operational areas during the 2010 open enrollment periods (i.e., the annual open election period (aep) and the medicare advantage open enrollment period (oep)). in addition, cms stated that it will be frequently asking us for specific data to provide cms with assurance that the deficiencies that were the basis for the sanction are not likely to recur. such surveillance, oversight and requests may impose additional administrative burdens on us to provide the information necessary to allow cms to evaluate our ongoing compliance, which could ultimately increase our selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ) expenses. if any of the underlying deficiencies that formed the basis for the cms sanction recur, including if we fail to be responsive to cms or to comply with cms timeliness requirements for responding to beneficiary complaints or cms identifies new deficiencies, we will be subject to the remedies available to cms under law, including the imposition of additional sanctions or penalties, contract nonrenewal or termination, as described in 42 c.f.r. parts 422 and 423, subparts k and o, which could have a material adverse effect on us. moreover, as a result of the cms sanction and its targeted monitoring and heightened surveillance of us, the recurrence of deficiencies that in prior periods resulted in fines or penalties to us that were not significant could result in increased fines and penalties and any such increases could be material. because our medicaid premiums, which generate a significant portion of our total revenues, are fixed by contract, we are unable to increase our premiums during the contract term despite our corresponding medical benefits expense exceeding our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. most of our medicaid revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member.. these payments are fixed by contract, and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to five years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by state and federal governments. we have less control over costs related to the provision of health care services than we do over our selling, general and administrative expense. historically, our medical benefits expense as a percentage of premium revenue has fluctuated within a relatively narrow band. for example, our medical benefits expense was 79.4%, 85.3% and 85.4% for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. further, our regulators set premiums using actuarial methods based on historical data. actual experience, however, could differ from those assumed in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. if our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, we will nonetheless be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on ur results of operations. relatively small changes in our medical benefits ratio ( mbr ), can create significant changes in our financial results. accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported, or ibnr, claims, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. historically, our medical expenses as a percentage of premium revenue have fluctuated. factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed our estimates include: an increase in the cost of healthcare services and supplies, including prescription drugs, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; higher than expected utilization of healthcare services, particularly in-patient hospital services, or unexpected utilization patterns; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician, and other provider contracts; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; new mandated benefits or other changes in healthcare laws, regulations, and practices; 27 table of contents new treatments and technologies; and contractual disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers. we attempt to control these costs through a variety of techniques, including capitation and other risk-sharing payment methods, collaborative relationships with pcps and other providers, case and disease management and quality assurance programs, and preventive and wellness visits for members. despite our efforts and programs to manage our medical expenses, we may not be able to continue to manage these expenses effectively in the future. if our medical expenses increase, our profits could be reduced or we may not remain profitable. changes in our member mix may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. our revenues, costs and margins vary based on changes to our membership mix, product mix and the demographics of our membership. our revenues are generally comprised of fixed payments that are determined by the type of member in our plans. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs required to serve members with various demographic and health risk profiles. as such, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for an ssi member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes, there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. reduction, delay or the inability of federal or state funding for health care programs could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, cash flows and results of operations. the federal government and many states from time to time consider reducing the level of funding for government health care programs, including medicare and medicaid, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. for example, the deficit reduction act of 2005 (the dra ), signed into law on february 8, 2006, includes reductions in federal medicaid spending by approximately $4.8 billion and reductions to medicare spending by approximately $6.4 billion over a period of five years, according to the congressional budget office. the dra reduces spending by cutting medicaid payments for prescription drugs and gives states new power to reduce or reconfigure benefits. this law may also lead to lower medicaid reimbursements in some states. states also periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend for medicaid and other programs. in recent years, the majority of states have implemented measures to restrict medicaid and other health care programs costs and eligibility. changes to medicaid and other health care programs could reduce the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for these programs, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or health care costs under those programs, all of which could have a negative impact on our business. we believe that reductions in medicaid and other health care program payments could substantially reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds; such cancellations could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. stimulus funds for medicaid in arra are anticipated to end in 2010 leaving certain states with sizable projected budget gaps in their medicaid programs. absent additional federal assistance, these states may be under pressure to raise revenue, reduce provider payments, and reduce benefits or a combination of the above. we continue to evaluate the impact proposed alternatives could have on our business and will take action as appropriate. for example, one state that might be affected is florida. according to the state of florida's long range financial outlook fiscal year 2010-2011 through 2012-2013 report, the state anticipates a number of budget challenges in the coming years. this report notes that, overall, the general revenue fund is solvent for fiscal year 2009-10, but has projected shortfalls in each of the three planning years despite the significant revenue growth projected for those years. florida is one of our two largest medicaid customers. although premiums are contractually payable to us before or during the month in which we are obligated to provide services to our members, we have experienced delays in premium payments from certain states of up to five months. given the budget shortfalls in many states that we contract with, payment delays may reoccur in the future. for example, the state of hawaii's department of human services ("hawaii dhs") recently announced that as a result of hawaii's budget shortfall during its current fiscal year, hawaii dhs intends to withhold payments to plans offering services under the quest and quest expanded access programs, including ours, for a period of approximately three to four months. while we and other affected health plans are urging hawaii dhs to reconsider its intention to defer payment, we can offer no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that any such delay would not ultimately go beyond four months. our monthly premium on the hawaii medicaid program averages approximatley $25.0 million. 28 table of contents the inability or failure to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs could result in operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, underwriting, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, planning and analysis and e-commerce. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and accurate financial reporting. there can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. additionally, events outside our control, including acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires or terrorism, could significantly impair our information systems and applications. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary data center operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover business functionality within stated timelines. our disaster plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, fines and penalties, possible liability and loss. our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if such breaches are not prevented. we rely on a number of vendors, and failure of any one of the key vendors to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we have contracted with a number of vendors to provide significant assistance in our operational support including, but not limited to, certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under our contracts with them. significant failure by a vendor to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. further, due to business changes or legal proceedings, our ability to manage these vendors may be impacted. in addition, due to these factors, our vendors may request changes in pricing, payment terms or other contractual obligations between the parties which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 29 table of contents we encounter significant competition for program participation, network providers and members, and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, which may have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive environment and in an industry that is currently subject to significant changes due to business consolidations, changes in regulation that could affect competitors differently, increased regulatory scrutiny, strategic alliances and growing revenue and cost pressures. we compete principally on the basis of premiums and cost-sharing terms, provider network composition, benefits and medical services provided, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints, and other factors. for a discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate, see part i item 1 business competition. a number of these competitive elements are partially dependent on, and can be positively affected by, financial resources available to a health plan. many other organizations with which we compete have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. competitors with greater financial resources than us may be better positioned than us to withstand rate compression. further, we operate in, or may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable business which could hurt our results of operations. in addition, regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. we may not be able to retain or effectively replace our executive officers, other members of management or associates, and the loss of any one or more members of management and their managed care expertise, or large numbers of associates, could have a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the leadership, knowledge and experience of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business. replacing one or more of the members of our management team might be difficult or take an extended period of time. in addition, we may not be able to hire and retain our executive officers, other members of management or associates for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to the: uncertainty about government health care policies and funding and the potential impact on us; uncertainty about potential future regulatory actions similar to the cms sanction; uncertainty surrounding ongoing governmental and company investigations and litigation; and decline of our stock price in light of the importance of equity in many of our compensation packages. accordingly, all of these factors may impair our ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our providers, we may be precluded from operating in some markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to enter into cost-effective contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers in appropriate numbers and at locations convenient for our members in each of the markets in which we operate. in any particular market, however, providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical benefits expense. in some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions. if such a provider or any of our other providers refused to contract with us or used their market position to negotiate contracts that might not be cost-effective or otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage, those activities could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in that market. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in the long term, our ability to contract successfully with a sufficiently large number of providers in a particular geographic market will affect the relative attractiveness of our managed care products in that market. if we are unsuccessful in negotiating satisfactory contracts with our network providers, it could preclude us from renewing our medicaid or medicare contracts in those markets, from being able to enroll new members or from entering into new markets. also, in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. 30 table of contents our provider contracts with network pcp and specialists generally have terms of one to four years, with automatic renewal for successive one-year terms. we may be unable to continue to renew such contracts or enter into new contracts enabling us to serve our members profitably. we are also required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. finally, we may be unable to maintain our relationships with our network providers or enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our results of operations and profitability could be materially adversely affected. our inability to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property rights in our brand names for our health plans or enforce such rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to market our health plans under our brand names, including wellcare, healthease, staywell, and harmony. we hold federal trademark registrations for the wellcare, "healthease" and "harmony" trademarks, and we are pursuing an application with the u.s. patent and trademark office to register "ohana health plan, inc. &amp; design. we use the staywell trademark only in the state of florida, and, pursuant to an agreement in august 2008 with the staywell company, a health education company based in st. paul, minnesota, we will co-exist with their use of that term for very different kinds of services and will not pursue a federal registration of that trademark. it is possible that other businesses may have actual or purported rights in the same names or similar names to those under which we market our health plans, which could limit or prevent our ability to use these names, or our ability to prevent others from using these names. if we are unable to prevent others from using our brand names, if others prohibit us from using such names or if we incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights in such brand names, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. several members of our management team have been recently appointed to their positions, and a lack of familiarity with our company or our industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. during the past year, our management team has undergone a number of changes, including the resignation of our chief executive officer, the elimination of the position of president of national medicare and the appointment of several members of senior management, some of whom have limited prior experience with our company or our industry. our operations are highly dependent on the experience and skills of our management team. the lack of familiarity and experience with us or our industry by some members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure of our state regulators to approve payments of dividends and/or distributions from certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, non-regulated cash flows, business and financial condition. in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. the discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend or intercompany transaction is often not clearly defined. health plans that declare ordinary dividends usually must provide notice to the regulators in advance of the intended distribution date of such dividend. extraordinary dividends require approval by state regulators prior to declaration. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, non-regulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. claims relating to medical malpractice and other litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. our providers involved in medical care decisions and associates involved in coverage decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. some states have passed or are considering legislation that permits managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations, or eliminates the requirement that providers carry a minimum amount of professional liability insurance. this kind of legislation has the effect of shifting the liability for medical decisions or adverse outcomes to the managed care organization. this could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or could cause us to pay additional premiums to increase our insurance coverage. therefore, successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers or our associates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are party to various other litigation matters (including the matters discussed in part i item 3 legal proceedings ), some of which seek monetary damages. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we may incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 table of contents we maintain errors and omissions policies as well as other insurance coverage. however, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, our insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations, or the amount of our insurance coverage may be inadequate. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future or that insurance will continue to be available to us on a cost-effective basis. moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. the defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management's attention. as a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. risks related to our financial condition we may be unable to raise additional unregulated cash, if needed, in the current economic environment. although, from time to time, we have maintained a line of credit to facilitate unregulated cash flows, we currently do not have a loan facility in place. continued turmoil in the financial markets and general adverse economic conditions make it more difficult, and perhaps prohibitively costly, for us to raise capital through the issuance of debt, publicly or privately. if we are unable to raise additional unregulated cash when needed, our unregulated cash balances will deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business condition and results of operations. an intercompany loan arrangement currently in place could be terminated by insurance regulators, which would have a material adverse effect on our unregulated cash position and liquidity. two of our regulated florida subsidiaries currently have intercompany loan arrangements in place lending a total of $50.0 million to one of our non-regulated subsidiaries. the intercompany loan arrangement was for the purpose of commencing a new business that ultimately did not occur. the loan arrangements require repayment in september 2012 and we do not intend to repay the loan until that time. however, the florida regulators could require the regulated subsidiaries to terminate the intercompany loan arrangements before the due date, necessitating the borrowing subsidiary to repay in full the amount owed to the regulated florida subsidiaries. if the borrowing subsidiary were required to repay the intercompany loans, or other restrictions were placed on the use of the loan proceeds, our unregulated cash balance could be reduced by up to $50.0 million plus any accrued interest. our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. as of december, 31, 2009, our long-term investments had an amortized cost of $57.0 million and an estimated fair value of $51.7 million, and were comprised of municipal note investments with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities ). these notes are issued by various state and local municipal entities for the purpose of financing student loans, public projects and other activities, which carry investment grade credit ratings. liquidity for these auction rate securities is typically provided by an auction process which allows holders to sell their notes and resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, usually anywhere from seven to 35 days. auctions for these auction rate securities have continued to fail and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed in the near future. an auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not be matched with an adequate volume of buyers. the securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest at the contractual rate and be auctioned every seven, 14, 28 or 35 days, as the case may be, until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, or they mature. as a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or non-existent. we may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 30 years) to realize our investments' recorded value. if the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. 32 table of contents risks related to being a regulated entity cms's risk adjustment payment system makes our revenue and results of operations difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. cms has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for medicare plans to enroll and treat less healthy medicare beneficiaries. cms's risk adjustment model bases its reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors including hospital inpatient diagnoses, diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings, including hospital outpatient facilities and physician visits, gender, age, and medicare eligibility. cms requires all managed care companies to capture, collect, and report the necessary diagnosis code information to cms. because 100% of medicare advantage premiums are now risk-based, it is more difficult to predict with certainty our future revenue and results of operations. in addition, cms establishes premium payments to medicare plans generally at the beginning of the calendar year and then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions during the year on a retroactive basis. the first such adjustment updates the risk scores for the current year based on prior year's dates of service. the second such adjustment is a final retroactive risk premium settlement for the prior year. as a result of the variability of factors, including plan risk scores, that determine such estimates, the actual amount of cms's retroactive payment could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period and our accrual of premiums related thereto may result in adjustments to our medicare premium revenue and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the data provided to cms to determine the risk score is subject to audit by cms even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to cms previously received by us. while our experience to date has not resulted in a material refund, this refund could be significant in the future, which would reduce our premium revenue in the year that cms requires repayment. in february 2008, cms published preliminary results of a study designed to assess the degree of coding pattern differences between original medicare and medicare advantage and the extent to which any such differences could be appropriately addressed by an adjustment to risk scores. cms's study of risk scores for medicare populations from 2004 through 2006 found that medicare advantage member risk scores increased substantially more than the risk scores for the general medicare fee-for-service population. cms found that the overall risk scores of stayers (a cms term referring to those persons who were enrolled either in the same medicare advantage plan or in original medicare during the study periods) in medicare advantage increased more than those of original medicare stayers. accordingly, in the 2009 advance notice of methodological changes for calendar year 2009 for medicare advantage capitation rates and part d payment policies, cms summarized findings from its analysis of risk scores over the 2004-2006 time period and proposed to apply a coding intensity adjustment to contracts whose disease scores for stayers exceeded fee-for-service by twice the industry average. the agency proposed to apply an adjustment that was calculated based on those contracts that fell above the threshold. in response to the advance notice, cms received a significant number of comments on the proposed adjustment for medicare advantage coding differences, most of which disagreed with the view that cms had identified differences in coding patterns between medicare advantage and fee-for-service medicare. cms then decided not to make a coding intensity adjustment for 2009. for calendar year 2010, a negative coding intensity adjustment factor of 3.41% will apply to all managed care plans. the coding intensity adjustment factor would be applied to beneficiaries and risk scores, resulting in a decrease in our medicare revenue. cms has begun a program to perform audits of selected ma plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk-adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each ma member. our florida hmo contract has been selected by cms for audit for the 2007 contract year and we anticipate that cms will conduct additional audits of other contracts and contract years on an ongoing basis. the cms audit of this data involves a review of a sample of provider medical records for the contract under audit. we are unable to estimate the financial impact of any audit that is underway or that may be conducted in the future. we are also unable to determine whether any conclusions that cms may make, based on the audit of our plan and others, will cause us to change our revenue estimation process. at this time, we do not know whether cms will require retroactive or subsequent payment adjustments to be made using an audit methodology that may not compare the coding of our providers to the coding of original medicare and other ma plan providers, and how, if at all, cms will extrapolate its findings to the entire contract. however, it is reasonably possible that a payment adjustment as a result of these audits could occur, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, possibly in 2010 and beyond. reductions in funding for government health care programs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. all of the health care services we offer are through government-sponsored programs, such as medicaid and medicare. as a result, our profitability is dependent, in large part, on continued funding for government health care programs at or above current levels. for example, the premium rates paid by each state to health plans like ours differ depending on a combination of factors such as upper payment limits established by the state and federal governments, a member's health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix and member 33 table of contents eligibility categories. future medicaid premium rate levels may be affected by continued government efforts to contain medical costs or state and federal budgetary constraints. some of the states in which we operate have experienced fiscal challenges leading to significant budget deficits. according to the national association of state budget officers, medicaid spending consumes a significant portion of the average state's budget. health care spending increases appear to be more limited than in the past, as states continue to look at medicaid programs as opportunities for budget savings and some states may find it difficult to continue paying current rates to medicaid health plans. changes in medicaid funding may lead to reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for medicaid, reductions in the amount of reimbursement or elimination of coverage for certain benefits such as pharmacy, behavioral health or other benefits. in some cases, changes in funding could be made retroactive, in which case we may be required to return premiums already received or receive reduced future payments. in the recent past, all of the states in which we operate have implemented or considered legislation or regulations that would reduce reimbursement rates, payment levels, benefits covered or the number of persons eligible for medicaid. reductions in medicaid payments could reduce our profitability if we are unable to reduce our expenses at the same rate. further, continued economic slowdowns in our markets have negatively impacted state revenues. the number of persons eligible to receive medicaid benefits may grow more slowly or even decline more rapidly or in tandem with declining or stagnating economic conditions. for example, the governments that oversee the medicaid programs could choose to limit program eligibility in an effort to reduce the portion of their respective state budgets attributable to medicaid, which would cause our membership and revenues to decrease. therefore, declining or stagnating general economic conditions may cause our membership levels to decrease even further, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. historically, the number of persons eligible to receive medicaid benefits has increased more rapidly during periods of rising unemployment, corresponding to less favorable general economic conditions. conversely, this number may grow more slowly or even decline if economic conditions improve. therefore, improvements in general economic conditions may cause our membership levels to decrease, thereby causing our financial position, results of operations or cash flows to suffer, which could lead to decreases in our stock price during periods in which stock prices in general are increasing. in addition, the states may also develop future medicaid capitation rates that, while actuarially sound, are insufficient to keep pace with medical trends or inflation, therefore reducing our profitability in those markets and materially adversely affecting our results of operations. we are experiencing pressure in many states and specifically on rates in florida and georgia, two states from which we derive a substantial portion of our revenue. in 2009, florida implemented medicaid rates that made it economically unfeasible for us to continue to participate in the medicaid reform programs. as a result, we withdrew from these programs effective july 1, 2009, which resulted in a loss of approximately 80,000 members. current regulation in georgia related to payment of claims, eligibility determination and provider contracting, has negatively impacted expenses for the plan in 2009 and this may continue in the future. further, continued economic slowdowns in florida and georgia, as well as other states, could result in additional state actions that could adversely affect our revenues. similar to medicaid, reductions in payments under medicare or the other programs under which we offer health plans could likewise reduce our profitability. the mma permits premium levels for certain medicare plans to be established through competitive bidding, with congress retaining the ability to limit increases in premium levels established through bidding from year to year. the federal government also has passed legislation that phases out medicare advantage budget neutrality payments through 2011, which impacts premium increases over that timeframe. congress is considering other reductions to rates or other changes to medicare part d which could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. legislation has been enacted to postpone a planned 21% reduction in the physician fee schedule until february 28, 2010. we expect that the physician fee schedule cut implicit in the premium rates will not be enacted in 2010 and that the following are among the events that are likely to occur: member benefits will be reduced; member premiums will be increased; and margins will decline. these events are likely to have a negative affect on our 2010 operating results and membership. in january 2009, the obama administration took office. although the new administration and congress have expressed some support for measures intended to expand the number of citizens covered by health insurance and other changes within the health care system, the costs of implementing any of these proposals could be financed, in part, by reductions in the payments made under medicare and other government programs. similarly, although congress approved the children's health bill which, among things, increases federal funding to s-chip and president obama signed the american recovery and reinvestment act that provides funding for, among other things, state medicaid programs and aid to states to help defray budget cuts, because of the unsettled nature of these initiatives, the numerous steps required to implement them and the substantial amount of state flexibility for determining how medicaid and s-chip funds will be used, we are currently unable to assess the ultimate impact that they will have on our business. 34 table of contents we are subject to extensive government regulation, and any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to periodic reviews and audits under our contracts with state government agencies, and these audits could have adverse findings which may have a material adverse effect on our business. we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services. pursuant to these contracts, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future service or geographic expansion; and suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several departments of insurance and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. see cms's risk adjustment payment system makes our revenue and results of operations difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for additional risks associated with a current cms audit of one of our plans. we are subject to laws and government regulations that may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to shareholders. we are subject to state laws regarding insurers and hmos that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance subsidiary. for purposes of these laws, in most states control is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our shareholders find favorable. we are subject to extensive fraud and abuse laws which may give rise to lawsuits and claims against us, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent, and some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. 35 table of contents in a letter dated october 15, 2008, the civil division informed counsel to the special committee that as part of the pending civil inquiry, the civil division is investigating a number of qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act, 31 u.s.c. sections 3729-3733. the seal in those cases has been partially lifted for the purpose of authorizing the civil division to disclose to us the existence of the qui tam complaints. the complaints otherwise remain under seal as required by 31 u.s.c. section 3730(b)(3). we are discussing with the civil division the allegations by the qui tam relators. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action on october 25, 2007 in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. because qui tam actions brought under federal and state false claims acts are sealed by the court at the time of filing, we are unable to determine the nature of the allegations and, therefore, we do not know at this time whether this action relates to the subject matter of the federal investigations. it is possible that additional qui tam actions have been filed against us and are under seal. thus, it is possible that we are subject to liability exposure under the false claims act, or similar state statutes, based on qui tam actions other than those discussed in this 2009 form 10-k. we can give no assurances that we will not be subject to civil actions and enforcement proceedings under these federal and state statutes and regulations in the future. any such claims, proceedings or violations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. if state regulatory agencies require a higher statutory capital level for our existing operations or if we become subject to additional capital requirements, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to our regulated subsidiaries, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our operations are conducted through licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries. these subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. one or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. for example, new york state adopted regulations that increase the capital reserve requirement by 150% over an eight-year period that will be fully implemented in 2012. the phased-in increase in reserve requirements to which our new york plan is subject has, over time, materially increased our reserve requirements in one of our subsidiaries domiciled in new york. other states may elect to adopt risk-based capital requirements based on guidelines adopted by the naic. as of december 31, 2009, our hmo operations in connecticut, georgia, illinois, indiana, louisiana, missouri and ohio, and our pffs operations, were subject to such guidelines. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory net worth due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue to be profitable. for example, we have decided to exit the medicare pdp program in wisconsin for 2010 due to that state's capital requirements, and auto-assigned pdp membership in wisconsin will be re-assigned to other plans. several changes to the medicare program resulting from the mippa legislation could increase competition for our existing and prospective members and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. mippa was enacted in 2008 and impacts a broad range of medicare activities and all types of medicare managed care plans. all of the changes imposed on us by mippa, including those discussed below, have the potential to cause us to incur additional administrative expense, lose membership and ultimately reduce our medicare revenues, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations: sales and marketing : mippa and subsequent cms guidance place prohibitions and limitations on certain sales and marketing activities of ma and pdps. among other things, ma and pdps are not permitted to: make unsolicited outbound calls to potential members or engage in other forms of unsolicited contact; cross-sell non-medicare products to existing members during ma or part d sales interactions; establish appointments without documented consent from potential members; provide meals to potential enrollees at 36 table of contents sales events; or conduct sales events in certain provider-based settings. in response, we have focused on more formal marketing methods (e.g., advertising and other media-generated activity) during the most recent medicare enrollment period, which has served to increase our acquisition costs and slowed our sales. further, the new mippa guidelines, along with the rapid and rigorous requirements to implement them, contributed to the violations that resulted in cms sanction that suspended our marketing and selling ability noted earlier. special needs plans : a significant portion of our ma ccp membership is enrolled in our d-snps. under mippa and subsequent cms guidance, d-snps such as ours are required to contract with state medicaid agencies to coordinate care. the scope of the d-snp contract with the state medicaid agency varies greatly based on what eligibility categories, cost-sharing responsibilities and payment limitations each state has included in its state plan. the contracting process under mippa provides an opportunity for d-snps and states to improve the coordination of benefits, including defining the overlap between medicaid and medicare benefits, eligibility verification processes, payment and coverage responsibilities, marketing and enrollment standards, appeals and grievances procedures and other important operational considerations. collaboration between states and d-snps is expected to create administrative efficiencies and improve beneficiary health outcomes. however, the requirement to contract with state medicaid agencies imposes potential risk for d-snp providers such as us because mippa does not allow continued operation of a d-snp after 2010 if a state and the d-snp provider cannot come to agreement on terms. currently we have contracted with 4 of the 11 states in which we currently offer d-snps. while we are pursuing contracts with the remaining states, we are unable to provide assurances that our efforts will be successful or will result in terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. compensation : mippa also establishes limits on agent and broker compensation. the cms implementing regulations require that plans that pay commissions do so by paying for an initial year commission and residual commissions for each of the five subsequent renewal years, thereby creating a six year commission cycle with respect to members moving from original medicare and a five year commission cycle with respect to members moving from another medicare advantage plan. we are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, and we have not yet determined what our total compliance costs will be; however, such costs, when determined, could be more than anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. enacted into law in february 2009, arra expanded and strengthened privacy and security requirements under hipaa, which applies to us. arra imposes many hipaa security and privacy requirements directly on business associates that were previously only directly applicable to health plans, certain providers and healthcare clearinghouses. in addition, arra further limits our use and disclosure of protected health information ( phi ). among other things, these limitations include prohibitions on exchanging phi for remuneration, restrictions on marketing to individuals, and the promise of new standards for the de-identification of data. arra also imposed new obligations on us to provide individuals with electronic copies of their health information, to agree to certain restrictions requested by individuals and eventually to provide individuals an accounting of virtually all disclosures of their health information. most of these provisions became effective in february 2010 and many will be further clarified by regulations promulgated by the department of health and human services ( hhs ). the earliest compliance date for limitations on exchanging phi for remuneration and providing expanded accounting to individuals is in 2011. civil penalties for violations by either covered entities or business associates are increased up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. imposition of these penalties is more likely because arra strengthens enforcement. for example, commencing february 2010, hhs is required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties are mandatory beginning in february 2011, are statutorily required. in addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of hipaa privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. initially monies collected will be transferred to a division of hhs for further enforcement, and within three years, a methodology will be adopted for distributing a percentage of those monies to affected individuals to fund enforcement and provide incentive for individuals to report violations. in addition, commencing september 2009, arra requires us to notify affected individuals, hhs, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. arra also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. while provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under arra, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state medicaid agencies. we are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. 37 table of contents we are currently evaluating arra for its specific impact on us and our customers. we will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under arra are promulgated and more information becomes available from hhs and other federal agencies. the new privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, employee education and resources and there is no guarantee that we be able to implement them adequately or prior to their compliance date. given hipaa's complexity and the anticipated new regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with any of the hipaa requirement is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under arra and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. future changes in health care law may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or liquidity. health care laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to undergo a corporate restructuring; increasing mandated benefits; limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; requiring us to develop plans to guard against the financial insolvency of our providers; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may materially adversely affect our profitability. requirements relating to managed care consumer protection standards, including increased plan information disclosure, limits to premium increases, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim payment timing, physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or continue to be under discussion. new health care reform legislation may require us to change the way we operate our business, which may be costly. further, although we strive to exercise care in structuring our operations to attempt to comply in all material respects with the laws and regulations applicable to us, government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing such laws and/or regulations have in the past asserted and may in the future assert that we or transactions in which we are involved are in violation of these laws, or courts may ultimately interpret such laws in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. therefore, it is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under the medicaid, medicare and s-chip programs and to continue to serve our members and attract new members, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. state regulatory restrictions on our marketing activities may constrain our membership growth and our ability to increase our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect in our results of operations. although we rely on direct marketing and sales efforts in a few of our states, the majority of our new members are obtained through voluntary selection and automatic enrollment programs. all of the states in which we currently operate permit advertising and, in most cases, direct sales but impose strict requirements and limitations as to the types of marketing activities that are permitted. for example, the state of georgia does not permit direct sales by medicaid health plans. in georgia, we advertise our plans, but we rely on member selection and auto-assignment of medicaid members into our plans. similarly, plans participating in the florida medicaid program are prohibited from directly selling their plans to medicaid recipients. in circumstances where our marketing efforts are prohibited or curtailed, we may incur additional administrative expense in trying to obtain members and our ability to increase or sustain membership could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 38 table of contents if a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory medicaid enrollment in managed care plans. states may mandate medicaid enrollment into managed care through cms-approved plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by the government to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. for example, in july 2008, we continued to receive premiums from the state of florida for members that had become eligible for both medicaid and medicare benefits. once recipients become dually eligible, their premiums are primarily remitted by cms rather than the state. in this case, the state of florida had not properly reduced the amount of premium it paid to us to reflect that cms was now the primary payor. our review of all remittance files to identify potential duplicate members, members that should be terminated or members for which we have been paid an incorrect rate may not identify all such members and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recovered. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments to providers we made and we were unable to recoup such payments from the providers. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our failure to maintain accreditations could disqualify us from participation in certain state medicaid programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. several of our medicaid contracts require that our plans or subcontracted providers be accredited by independent accrediting organizations that are focused on improving the quality of health care services. accreditation by aaahc or comparable accreditation is a requirement for participation in the florida medicaid program. further, florida medicaid plans can only subcontract behavioral health services to a urac-accredited organization. accreditation by ncqa is a requirement for participation in the georgia medicaid managed care program and the hawaii medicaid program requires that participating plans be either ncqa or urac accredited. our florida health plans are accredited by the aaahc and our georgia health plan is accredited by ncqa. under the terms of our medicaid contract, we have until january 1, 2012 to obtain ncqa accreditation in hawaii. failure to maintain our aaahc or urac accreditations in florida or ncqa accreditation in georgia could disqualify us from participation in the florida and georgia medicaid businesses, respectively. similarly, failure to obtain ncqa accreditation in hawaii by january 1, 2012 could disqualify us from participation in the hawaii medicaid program. there can be no assurance that we will maintain, or obtain, our ncqa, urac or aaahc accreditations, and the loss of, or failure to obtain, these accreditations could adversely our ability to participate in certain medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 39 table of contents risks related to our common stock future sales, or the availability for sale, of our common stock may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of our common stock. as of december 31, 2009, we had outstanding options to purchase 1,919,535 shares of our common stock, of which 1,259,897 were exercisable, at a weighted average exercise price of $38.60 per share. in addition, as of december 31, 2009, we had outstanding 883,266 restricted stock units, which will vest at various times over approximately the next four years. from time to time, we may issue additional options and restricted stock units to associates, non-employee directors, consultants and others pursuant to our equity incentive plans. provisions in our charter documents and under delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and make it more difficult for a stockholder to elect directors of its choosing the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of applicable delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change in control that a stockholder may consider favorable. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests, make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that stockholders may consider unfavorable.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business future changes in health care law present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. health care laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to undergo a corporate restructuring; increasing mandated benefits; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may materially adversely affect our profitability. requirements relating to managed care consumer protection standards, including increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim payment timing, physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. new health care reform legislation may require us to change the way we operate our business, which may be costly. further, although we strive to exercise care in structuring our operations to comply in all material respects with the laws and regulations applicable to us, government officials charged with responsibility for enfor cing such laws and/or regulations have in the past asserted and may in the future assert that we, or transactions in which we are involved, are in violation of these laws, or courts may ultimately interpret such laws in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. therefore, it is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under our government-sponsored programs and to continue to serve our members and attract new members, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in march 2010, the president signed the 2010 acts. we believe these laws will bring about significant changes to the american health care system. while these measures are intended to expand the number of united states citizens covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery, and payment changes to the current health care system, the costs of implementing the 2010 acts will be financed, in part, by future reductions in the payments made to medicare providers. provisions of the 2010 acts will become effective over the next several years. several departments within the federal government are responsible for issuing regulations and guidance on implementing the 2010 acts. however, states have independently proposed health insurance reforms and mounted court challenges to the 2010 acts. congress has also recently initiated a reevaluation of certain provisions of the 2010 acts. because final rules and guidance on key aspects of the legislation have not yet been promulgated by the government regulators, the full impact of the 2010 acts is still unknown. we believe that revisions to the existing system may put pressure on operating results, decrease member benefits, and/or increase member cost share, particularly with respect to ma plans. the 2010 acts include a number of changes to the way ma plans will operate in the future such as: basing premium payments partially on quality scores, establishing minimum medical loss ratios and imposing new taxes and assessments. as part of the health care reform legislation, ma payment benchmarks for 2011 were frozen at 2010 levels. beginning in 2012, ma plan premiums will be partially tied to quality measures and based on a cms 5-star rating system. this rating system will allow an ma plan to receive an increase in certain premium rates. it is unknown whether these ratings will be geographically or demographically adjusted. the final methodology used in the determination of plan quality scores, which continues to be developed by cms, could impact our ability to provide additional benefits and entice new me mbers. our ma segment will become subject to a minimum medical loss ratio of 85% beginning in 2014. commercial health plans became subject to a similar provision, though at a different rate, effective january 1, 2011. regulations regarding the calculation 21 table of contents of the minimum medical loss ratio for commercial plans were issued by the hhs in november 2010. the expense amount used in the calculation of the minimum medical loss ratio will include quality improvement costs. quality improvement costs are generally defined as those that are designed to improve health outcomes, prevent hospital readmissions and enhance health care data to improve quality. federal and state premium taxes will be excluded from the premium revenue used in the ratio calculation. the calculation will be performed annually on a plan-by-plan basis, and any plan with a medical loss ratio below the target medical loss ratio will be required to return a percentage of premiums each year. plans that come under the medical loss ratio target over three consecutive years may be subject to future enrollment penalti es. hhs has not issued guidance specific to ma plans, but we are currently assessing the new guidance issued for commercial plans and we are analyzing which of our administrative costs may meet hhs's definition of quality improvement costs. our medicaid segment is not subject to the minimum medical loss ratio provision of the 2010 acts. the health reforms in the 2010 acts present both challenges and opportunities for our medicaid business. we anticipate that the reforms could significantly increase the number of citizens who are eligible to enroll in our medicaid products. however, state budgets continue to be strained due to economic conditions and uncertain levels of federal financing for current populations. as a result, the effects of any potential future expansions are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net impact of the 2010 acts will be positive or negative for our medicaid business. the 2010 acts also include an annual assessment on the insurance industry beginning in 2014. the legislation anticipates that the $8 billion insurance industry assessment is likely to increase in subsequent years. risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. cms employs a risk-adjustment model to determine the premium amount it pays for each member. this model apportions premiums paid to all ma plans according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. as a result, our cms monthly premium payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably. the cms risk-adjustment model pays more for medicare members with predictably higher costs. diagnosis data from inpatient and ambulatory treatment settings are used to calculate the risk-adjusted premiums we receive. we collect claims and encounter data and submit the necessary diagnosis data to cms within prescribed deadlines. after reviewing the respective submissions, cms establishes the premium payments to ma plans generally at the beginning of the ca lendar year, and then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions on a retroactive basis. the first retroactive adjustment for a given fiscal year generally occurs during the third quarter of such fiscal year. the initial cms settlement represents the updating of risk scores for the current year based on the severity of claims incurred in the prior fiscal year. cms then issues the final cms settlement. we reassess the estimates of the initial cms settlement and the final cms settlement each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to ma premium revenue. we develop our estimates for risk-adjusted premiums utilizing historical experience and predictive models as sufficient member risk score data becomes available over the course of each cms plan year. our models are populated with available risk score data on our members. risk premium adjustments are based on member risk score data from the previous year. risk score data for members who entered our plans during the current plan year, however, is not available for use in our models; therefore, we make assumptions regarding the risk scores of this subset of our member population. all such estimated amounts are periodically updated as additional diagnosis code information is reported to cms and adjusted to actual amounts when the ultimate adjustment settlements are either received f rom cms or we receive notification from cms of such settlement amounts. as a result of the variability of factors that determine such estimates, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of cms retroactive payment could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of ma premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. historically, we have not experienced significant differences between the amounts that we have recorded and the revenues that we ultimately receive. the data provided to cms to determine the risk score is subject to audit by cms even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of pr emiums to cms previously received by us. while our experience to date has not resulted in a material refund, this refund could be significant in the future, which would reduce our premium revenue in the year that cms determines repayment is required. cms has performed and continues to perform radv audits of selected ma plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each ma member. our florida ma plan was selected by cms for audit for the 2007 contract year and we anticipate that cms will conduct additional audits of other plans and contract years on an ongoing basis. the cms audit process selects a sample of 201 enrollees for medical record review from each contract selected. we have responded to cms's audit requests by retrieving and submitting all available medical records and provider attestations to substantiate cms-sampled diagnosis codes. cms will use this documentat ion to calculate a payment error rate for our florida ma plan 2007 premiums. cms has not indicated a schedule for processing or otherwise responding to our submissions. 22 table of contents cms has indicated that payment adjustments resulting from its radv audits will not be limited to risk scores for the specific beneficiaries for which errors are found, but will be extrapolated to the relevant plan population. in late december 2010, cms issued a draft audit sampling and payment error calculation methodology that it proposes to use in conducting these audits. cms invited public comment on the proposed audit methodology and announced in early february 2011 that it will revise its proposed approach based on the comments received. cms has not given a specific timetable for issuing a final version of the audit sampling and payment error calculation methodology. given that the radv audit methodology is new and is subject to modification, there is substantial uncert ainty as to how it will be applied to ma organizations like our florida ma plan. at this time, we do not know whether cms will require retroactive or subsequent payment adjustments to be made using an audit methodology that may not compare the coding of our providers to the coding of original medicare and other ma plan providers, or whether any of our other plans will be randomly selected or targeted for a similar audit by cms . we are also unable to determine whether any conclusions that cms may make, based on the audit of our plan and others, will cause us to change our revenue estimation process. because of this lack of clarity from cms, we are unable to estimate with any reasonable confidence a coding or payment error rate or predict the impact of extrapolating an applicable error rate to our florida ma plan 2007 premiums. however, it is likely that a payment adjustment will occu r as a result of these audits, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, possibly in 2011 and beyond. two of our medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue during 2010, and our failure to retain our contracts in those states, or a change in conditions in those states, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our concentration of operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions, a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or pandemic, or an unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. for the year ended december 31, 2010, two of our medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, which on a combined basis represented approximately 68% of our medicaid segment revenue and 42% of our consolidated premium revenues. these customers (florida and georgia) accounted for four separate contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. two of these contracts are renewable for a fixed number of additional one-year periods at the discretion of the customer. generally, they are terminable by the customer by giving us the requisite written notice. they are also terminable for cause if we breach a material provision of the contract or violate relevant laws or regulations. some of our contracts are subject to re-bidding or re-application. the georgia department of community health is evaluating its medicaid programs beyond july 1, 2012, which may include a re-bid of the programs for new contracts effective july 1, 2012. the current renewal term of our georgia contract expires on june 30, 2011 and only one renewal term remains from july 1, 2011 through june 30, 2012, which renewal shall be at the discretion of the georgia department of community health. if we lost this, or any of these other contracts, through the re-bidding process, and/or termination, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. medicaid premiums are fixed by contract and do not permit us to increase our premiums during the contract term despite any corresponding medical benefits expense exceeding estimates. most of our medicaid revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries. these payments are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to five years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by state and federal governments. we use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. we have less control over costs related to the provision of health care services than we have over our selling, general and administrative expense. if premiums do not increase when expenses related to medical services rise, our earnings will be affected negatively. further, our regulators set premiums usi ng actuarial methods based on historical data. actual experience, however, could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. if our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, we will be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some hospital contracts are directly tied to state medicaid fee schedules, in which case reimbursement levels will be adjusted up or down, based on adjustments made by the state to the impacted fee schedule. therefore, it is possible for a state to increase the rates payable by us to hospitals used by o ur members without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. we have experienced such adjustments in the states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively impacted. 23 table of contents our actual medical services costs may exceed our estimates, which would cause our medical benefits ratio ( mbr ), or our expenses related to medical services as a percentage of premium revenue, excluding premium taxes, to increase and our profits to decline. relatively small changes in our mbr can create significant changes in our financial results. accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported ( ibnr ) claims may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, our medical benefits expense as a percentage of premium revenue has fluctuated within a relatively narrow band. for example, our medical benefits expense was 86.5%, 86.5% and 84.4% for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. however, at any point factors may cause these percentages to increase. factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed our estimates include: an increase in the cost of healthcare services and supplies, including prescription drugs, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; higher than expected utilization of healthcare services, particularly in-patient hospital services, or unexpected utilization patterns; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician, and other provider contracts; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; new mandated benefits or other changes in healthcare laws, regulations, and practices; new treatments and technologies; and contractual disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers. we attempt to control these costs through a variety of techniques, including capitation and other risk-sharing payment methods, collaborative relationships with pcps and other providers, case and disease management and quality assurance programs, and preventive and wellness visits for members. these efforts and programs to manage our medical expenses may not be sufficient to manage these expenses effectively in the future. if our medical expenses increase, our profits could be reduced or we may no longer be able to remain profitable. medicaid premiums are a significant portion of our total consolidated premium revenue and any significant delay in premium payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. over 60% of our consolidated revenues for 2010 consisted of medicaid premiums. we use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. we generally receive payment of medicaid premiums during the month in which we provide services, although we have experienced delays in receiving monthly payments from certain states and our ability to require timely payment is generally very limited. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could result in additional and more extensive delays than we have experienced in the past. if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could negatively impact our profitability and subject us to fines, penalties and liquidated damages or the termination of our contract. we contract with various state governmental agencies to provide managed health care services. these contracts contain certain provisions regarding data submission, provider network maintenance, quality measures, continuity of care, call center performance and other requirements specific to state and program regulations. if we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines, penalties and liquidated damages that could impact our profitability. if we fail to comply repeatedly over an extended time period, the applicable contract may be subject to termination by a state agency. additionally, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with the state and we could be subject to fines, penalties and liquidated damages and additional corrective action measures if we did not comply with the corrective plan of action. our failure to comply could also affect future membership enrollment levels and our ability to compete for new business. these limitations could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. 24 table of contents under the terms of our contracts with state governmental agencies, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in any of the following: refunds to state government agencies of premiums we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions; loss of our right to participate in various markets; or loss of one or more of our licenses. any such action could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. our failure to maintain accreditations could disqualify us from participation in certain state medicaid programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. several of our medicaid contracts require that our plans or subcontracted providers be accredited by independent accrediting organizations that are focused on improving the quality of health care services. our florida, georgia, missouri and hawaii health plans are required by our medicaid contracts to be accredited, with our missouri contract specifying ncqa accreditation. further, florida medicaid plans can only subcontract behavioral health services to an accredited organization. currently, our florida health plans are accredited by urac and our georgia health plan has ncqa new health plan accreditation for its medicaid operations. under the terms of our medicaid contracts, we have until december 31, 2011 to obtain ncqa full health plan accreditation in georgia, october 1, 2011 to obtain ncqa health plan accreditation in missouri, and july 1, 2012 to obtain an accreditation by urac, ncqa or the accreditation association for ambulatory health care in hawaii. there can be no assurances that we will maintain, or obtain, our accreditations, and the loss of, or failure to obtain accreditations required by contract could adversely our ability to participate in certain medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flows and results of operations. if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could cease to be profitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive, or medical benefits ratio, can create significant changes in our financial results. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include: an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; higher than expected utilization of health care services; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; and new mandated benefits or other changes in health care laws, regulations and/or practices. we manage our medical costs through a variety of techniques, including various payment methods to pcps and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, medical and quality management programs, information systems, and reinsurance arrangements. however, if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to continue managing these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits could be reduced or we may not remain profitable. we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, but we cannot assure you that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. 25 table of contents we may be unable to expand into some geographic areas without incurring significant additional costs and if we are able to expand, ineffective management of our growth may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may be inhibited by: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary license to operate in the new area or the expansion of our licensed service area, if necessary; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; competition, which increases the costs of recruiting members; the cost of providing healthcare services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. accordingly, we may be unsuccessful in entering other metropolitan areas, counties or states, which may impede our growth. depending on opportunities, we expect to continue to increase our membership and to expand into other markets. however, such growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other resources and we are likely to incur additional costs if we enter states or counties where we do not currently operate. our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to retain and strengthen our management team and attract, train and retain skilled associates, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to potential acquisitions, such growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. our prudent and profitable growth initiative may be limited if we are unable to raise additional unregulated cash at favorable financing terms, if needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business strategy has been defined by three primary initiatives, one of which includes our ability to enter new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines. we may need to access the credit or equity markets to partially fund these growth activities. our ability to enter new markets may be hindered in situations where we need to access these markets and financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. while the credit and equity markets improved in 2010, our ability to obtain favorable financing, relative to the terms achievable by our competitors, may be impacted by any uncertainty regarding the previously disclosed government investigations and litigation. unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, covenants and other restrictions, could impede our ability to profita bly operate our business and increase the rate of return we require to enter new markets, making such efforts unfeasible. depending on the outcome of these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty, or be unable to implement our growth strategy as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we rely on a number of vendors, and failure of any one of the key vendors to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we have contracted with a number of vendors to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, behavioral health services for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under our contracts with them. in addition, where a vendor provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. significant failure by a vendor to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could h ave a material adverse effect on our results of operations. further, due to business changes or legal proceedings, our ability to manage these vendors may be impacted. due to these factors, our vendors may request changes in pricing, payment terms or other contractual obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we encounter significant competition for program participation, members and network providers, and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share and greater financial resources than we have in some markets. we compete with numerous types of competitors, including other medicaid or medicare health plans. we operate in, or may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable business which could h ave a material adverse affect on our results of operations. in addition, regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. 26 table of contents we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service . we may not be able to develop innovative products and services which are attractive to members. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on criteria including reimbursement rates; timeliness and accuracy of claims payment; potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients; effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints; and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract and retain providers to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, or maintain or increase our revenue growth, pricing flexibility and control over medical cost trends may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. for a discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate, see part i, item 1 business competition . if we are unable to build and maintain satisfactory relationships with our providers, we may be precluded from operating in some markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to enter into cost-effective contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers in appropriate numbers and at locations convenient for our members in each of the markets in which we operate. in any particular market, however, providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical benefits expense. in some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions. if such a provider or any of our other providers refused to contract with us or used their market position to negotiate contracts that might not be cost-effective or otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage, those actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in that market. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in the long term, our ability to contract successfully with a sufficiently large number of providers in a particular geographic market will affect the relative attractiveness of our managed care products in that market. if we are unsuccessful in negotiating satisfactory contracts with our network providers, it could preclude us from renewing our medicaid or medicare contracts in those markets, from being able to enroll new members or from entering into new markets. also, in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. our provider contracts with network pcps and specialists generally have terms of one year, with automatic renewal for successive one-year terms unless otherwise specified in writing by either party. we are also required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. we may be unable to maintain our relationships with our network providers or enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our ongoing operations and profitability could be materially adversely affected. changes in our member mix may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. our revenues, costs and margins vary based on changes to our membership mix, product mix and the demographics of our membership. our revenues are generally comprised of fixed payments that are determined by the type of member in our plans. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs required to serve members with various demographic and health risk profiles. as such, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for an ssi member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes, there is a correspon ding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. 27 table of contents if a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. our review of all remittance files to identify potential duplicate members, members that should be terminated or members for which we have been paid an incorrect rate may not identify all such members and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums that we believe to be erroneous, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation, including periodic reviews and audits under our contracts with government agencies, and any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future service or geographic expansion; and suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with a current cms audit of one of our plans, see cms's risk adjustment payment system makes our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations above. 28 table of contents we are subject to laws, government regulations and agreements that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to shareholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states control is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our shareholders find favorable. in addition, certain of our preliminary settlements require us to make additional payments upon the occurrence of certain change of control events. these include a $35.0 million payment in the event that we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control within three years of the execution of the final settlement agreement with the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ), the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida (the usao ), and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut to settle their pending inquiries. additionally, if, within three years following the date of the settlement agreement with the lead plaintiffs in the consolidate d securities class action against us, we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control at a share price of $30.00 or more, we will be required to pay to the class an additional $25.0 million. we are subject to extensive fraud and abuse laws which may give rise to lawsuits and claims against us, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent, and some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. qui tam actions under federal and state law can be broug ht by any individual on behalf of the government. qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. for example, in october 2008, the civil division informed us that as part of its pending civil inquiry, it was investigating four qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act, 31 u.s.c. sections 3729-3733. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. in june 2010 we announced that we reached a preliminary settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the the usao, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut to settle their pending inquiries. please see part i, item 3 legal proceedings for additional information on these matters. the inability or failure to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs could result in operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, underwriting, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, planning and analysis and e-commerce. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the futur e, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and accurate financial reporting. 29 table of contents there can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. additionally, events outside our control, including acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires or terrorism, could significantly impair our information systems and applications. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary data center operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover business functionality within stated timelines. our disaster plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, and we have not yet determined what our total compliance costs will be; however, such costs, when determined, could be more than anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make o ur systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, fines and penalties, possible liability and loss. our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if such breaches are not prevented. enacted into law in february 2009, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( arra ) expanded and strengthened privacy and security requirements under hipaa, including by further limiting our use and disclosure of protected health information ( phi ). among other things, these limitations include prohibitions on exchanging phi for remuneration, restrictions on marketing to individuals, and the promise of new standards for the de-identification of data. arra also imposed obligations on us to provide individuals with electronic copies of their health information, to agree to certain restrictions requested by individuals and eventually to provide individuals an accounting of virtually all disclosures of their health information. most of these provisions became effective in february 2010 and man y will be further clarified by regulations promulgated by hhs. in anticipation of these new limitations, we have already modified our notice of privacy practices and corresponding procedures to conform to the upcoming revisions. under arra, civil penalties for hipaa violations by covered entities are increased up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. in addition, imposition of these penalties is now more likely because arra strengthens enforcement. for example, commencing february 2010, hhs was required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties are mandatory beginning in february 2011, are statutorily required. in addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of hipaa privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. initially monies collected will be transferred to a division of hhs for fu rther enforcement, and within three years, a methodology will be adopted for distributing a percentage of those monies to affected individuals to fund enforcement and provide incentive for individuals to report violations. in addition, arra requires us to notify affected individuals, hhs, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. arra also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. while provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under arra, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state medicaid agencies. we are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. 30 table of contents we will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under arra are promulgated and more guidance becomes available from hhs and other federal agencies. the new privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, employee education and resources and there is no guarantee that we be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. given hipaa's complexity and the anticipated new regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the hipaa requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under arra and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. federal regulations require entities subject to hipaa to update their transaction formats for electronic data exchange from current hipaa 4010 requirement to the new hipaa 5010 standards, which are not only burdensome and complex, but could adversely impact administrative expense and compliance. a federal mandate known as hipaa 5010 will require health plans to use new standards for conducting certain operational and administrative transactions electronically beginning in january 2012. these administrative transactions include: claims, remittance, eligibility and claims status requests and responses. the hipaa 5010 upgrade was prompted by government and industry's shared goal of providing higher-quality, lower-cost health care and the need for a comprehensive electronic data exchange environment for the icd-10 mandate to be implemented by october 2013. upgrading to the new hipaa 5010 standards should increase transaction uniformity, support pay for performance and streamline reimbursement transactions. we, along with other health plans, face significant pressure to make sure that we have installed our software and tested it for compatibility with our business partners. because hipaa 5010 affects electronic transactions such as patient eligibility, claims filing, claims status and remittance advice, we must proceed proactively to achieve full functionality of hipaa 5010 transactions before the deadline. otherwise we may face transaction rejections and subsequent payment delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. as the deadline approaches, we continue to upgrade and test our claims management systems to accommodate hipaa 5010 and prevent any operational disruptions. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new icd-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. hhs has released rules pursuant to hipaa which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. hhs also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. by 2013, the federal government will require that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions. these new standardized code sets, known as icd-10, will require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. while use of the icd-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, we believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financ ial position or results of operations. however, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services. if state regulatory agencies require a higher statutory capital level for our existing operations or if we become subject to additional capital requirements, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to our regulated subsidiaries, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our operations are conducted primarily through licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries. these subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. one or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. for example, the state of new york adopted regulations that increase the capital reserve requirement by 150% over an eight-year period that will be fully implemented in 2013. the phased-in increase in reserve requirements to which our new york plan is subject has, over time, materially increased our reserve requirements in that plan. other states may elect to adopt risk-based capita l requirements based on guidelines adopted by the naic. as of december 31, 2010, our hmo operations in connecticut, georgia, illinois, indiana, louisiana, missouri, new jersey, ohio and texas as well as three of our insurance company subsidiaries were all subject to such guidelines. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in ou r regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. 31 table of contents an intercompany loan arrangement currently in place could be terminated by insurance regulators, which would have a material adverse effect on our unregulated cash position and liquidity. two of our regulated florida subsidiaries currently have intercompany loan arrangements in place lending a total of $50.0 million to one of our non-regulated subsidiaries. the intercompany loan arrangement was for the purpose of commencing a new business that ultimately did not occur. the loan arrangements are guaranteed by our parent company and require repayment in september 2012 and we do not intend to repay the loan until that time. however, the florida regulators could require the regulated subsidiaries to terminate the intercompany loan arrangements before the due date, necessitating the borrowing subsidiary to repay in full the amount owed to the regulated florida subsidiaries. if we or the borrowing subsidiary were required to repay the intercompany loans, or other restrictions were placed on the use of the loan proceeds, our unregulated cash balance could be reduced by up to $50.0 million plus any accrued interest. failure of our state regulators to approve payments of dividends and/or distributions from certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, non-regulated cash flows, business and financial condition. in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. the discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend or intercompany transaction is often not clearly defined. health plans that declare ordinary dividends usually must provide notice to the regulators in advance of the intended distribution date of such dividend. extraordinary dividends require approval by state regulators prior to declaration. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condi tion may be materially adversely affected. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. to the extent that our encounter data is inaccurate or incomplete, we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct this data and have been and could be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties potentially including regulatory risk for noncompliance. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards, which are partly used by states to set premium rates. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. on other occasions, there may be a period of time in which we are unable to meet existi ng requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. as states increase their reliance on encounter data, challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. claims relating to medical malpractice and other litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. our providers involved in medical care decisions and associates involved in coverage decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. some states have passed or are considering legislation that permits managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations, or eliminates the requirement that providers carry a minimum amount of professional liability insurance. this kind of legislation has the effect of shifting the liability for medical decisions or adverse outcomes to the managed care organization. this could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or could cause us to pay additional premiums to increase our insurance coverage. therefore, successful malpractice or tort claims a sserted against us, our providers or our associates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 32 table of contents from time to time, we are party to various other litigation matters (including the matters discussed in part i, item 3 legal proceedings , some of which seek monetary damages. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we may incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we maintain errors and omissions policies as well as other insurance coverage. however, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, our insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations, or the amount of our insurance coverage may be inadequate. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future or that insurance will continue to be available to us on a cost-effective basis. moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. the defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management's attention. as a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. as of december, 31, 2010, our long-term investments included certain municipal note investments with an auction reset feature ( auction rate securities ) that had a par value of $46.2 million and an estimated fair value of $42.2 million. these notes are issued by various state and local municipal entities for the purpose of financing student loans, public projects and other activities, which carry investment grade credit ratings. liquidity for these auction rate securities is typically provided by an auction process which allows holders to sell their notes and resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined intervals, usually anywhere from seven to 35 days. auctions for these auction rate securities have continued to fail and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investme nt portfolio will succeed in the near future. an auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not be matched with an adequate volume of buyers. the securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest at the contractual rate and be auctioned every seven, 14, 28 or 35 days, as the case may be, until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, or they mature. as a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or non-existent. we may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 29 years) to realize our investments' recorded value. if the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these investments. our inability to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property rights in our brand names for our health plans or enforce such rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to market our health plans under our brand names, including wellcare, healthease, staywell, and harmony. we hold federal trademark registrations for the wellcare, "healthease" and "harmony" trademarks, and we are pursuing an application with the u.s. patent and trademark office to register "ohana health plan, inc. &amp; design. we use the staywell trademark only in the state of florida, and, pursuant to an agreement in august 2008 with the staywell company, a health education company based in st. paul, minnesota, we will co-exist with their use of that term for very different kinds of services and will not pursue a federal registration of that trademark. it is possible that other businesses may have actual or purported rights in the same names or similar names to those under which we market our health plans, which could limit or prevent our ability to use these names, or our ability to prevent others from using these names. if we are unable to prevent others from using our brand names, if others prohibit us from using such names or if we incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights in such brand names, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. risks related to pending governmental investigations and litigation any resolution of the ongoing investigations being conducted by certain federal and state agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in 2009 we entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa ) with the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida (the usao ) and the florida attorney general's office, resolving previously disclosed investigations by those offices. as previously disclosed, we paid the usao a total of $80.0 million pursuant to the terms of the dpa. for more information regarding the dpa, please see part i, item 3 legal proceedings . 33 table of contents in october 2008, the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ) informed us that as part of the pending civil inquiry, it is investigating four qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act, 31 u.s.c. sections 3729-3733. as previously disclosed, we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action on october 25, 2007 in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries (the "leon county qui tam suit"). as part of our discussions to resolve pending qui tam and related civil investigations we have been informed that the leon county qui tam suit was filed by one of the federal qui tam relators and contains allegations similar to those alleged in one of the unsealed qui tam complaints unsealed in 2010. in june 2010, the united states government filed its notice of election to intervene in three of the qui tam matters and we announced that we reached a preliminary agreement (the preliminary settlement ) with the civil division, the civil division of the usao, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut to settle their pending inquiries for, among other things, our agreement to pay a total of $137.5 million, plus interest, over a period of 36 months, and a possible contingent payment of $35.0 million upon the occurrence of certain change in control events. the preliminary settlement is subject to completion and approval of an executed written settlement agreement and other government approvals. there can be no assurance that the preliminary settlement will be finalized and approved and the actual outcome of these matters may differ materially from the terms of the preliminary settlement. any final resolution of the ongoing investigations being conducted by these agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. for more information regarding the preliminary settlement, please see part i, item 3 legal proceedings . we remain engaged in resolution discussions as to matters under review with the united states department of health and human services' office of inspector general (the oig ). those discussions are ongoing and no final resolution has been reached. we do not know whether, or the extent to which, any pending investigations will result in the imposition of operating restrictions on our business. if we were to plead guilty to or be convicted of a health care related charge, potential adverse consequences could include revocation of our licenses, termination of one or more of our contracts and/or exclusion from further participation in medicare or medicaid programs. in addition, we could be required to operate under a corporate integrity agreement ( cia ), which is a detailed and restrictive agreement, usually lasting five years, that can be imposed by the oig. a cia could require us to operate under significant restrictions, place substantial burdens on our management, hinder our ability to attract and retain qualified associates and cause us to incur significant costs. further, the majority of our contracts pursuant to which we provide medicare and medicaid services contain provisions that grant the regulator broad authority to terminate at will contracts with any entity affiliated with a convicted entity or for other reasons. any such outcomes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the pendency of these investigations as well as the litigation described below could also impair our ability to raise additional capital, which may be needed to pay any resulting interest, civil or criminal fines, penalties or other assessments. if we commit a material breach of the dpa, we will likely be convicted of one or more criminal offenses, including health care fraud, which would cause us to be excluded from certain programs and would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse affect on our results of operations. pursuant to the dpa, the usao filed a one-count criminal information (the information ) in the u.s. district court for the middle district of florida (the federal court ), charging us with conspiracy to commit health care fraud against the florida medicaid program in connection with reporting of expenditures under certain community behavioral health contracts, and against the florida healthy kids programs, under certain contracts, in violation of 18 u.s.c. section 1349. the usao recommended to the federal court that the prosecution of us be deferred during the duration of the dpa. in the event of a knowing and willful material breach of a provision of the dpa, the usao has broad discretion to prosecute us through the filed information or otherwise. we could also be prosecuted by the florida attorne y general's office under such circumstances. in light of the provisions of the dpa, any such proceeding would likely result in one or more criminal convictions, including for health care fraud, which, in turn, would cause us to be excluded from certain programs and could result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 34 table of contents we and certain of our past officers and directors are defendants in litigation relating to our participation in federal health care programs, accounting practices and other related matters, and the outcome of these lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. putative class action complaints were filed in 2007 against us, as well as certain of our past and present officers and directors, alleging, among other things, numerous violations of securities laws. in august 2010 we reached agreement with the lead plaintiffs on the material terms of a settlement to resolve these matters. in december 2010, the terms of the settlement were documented in a formal settlement agreement that was preliminarily approved by the federal court in february 2011 and is subject to final approval by the federal court following notice to all class members. the settlement provides, among other things, that we will make cash payments to the class of $87.5 million, issue to the class tradable unsecured bonds having an aggregate face value of $112.5 million, with a fixed coupon of 6% and a maturi ty date of december 31, 2016. the settlement also includes possible contingent payments of $25.0 million upon the occurrence of certain change in control events and 25% of any sums we recover from todd farha, paul behrens and/or thaddeus bereday, three of our former officers, as a result of claims arising from the same facts and circumstances that gave rise to this matter. there can be no assurance that the settlement will be finalized and approved and the actual outcome of this matter may differ materially from the terms of the settlement. for more information regarding these matters, please see part i, item 3 legal proceedings . these and other potential actions that may be filed against us, whether with or without merit, may divert the attention of management from our business, harm our reputation and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation, including the matters discussed in part i, item 3 legal proceedings . in connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors, officers and associates and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. in august 2010, we entered into an agreement and release with the carriers of our directors and officers ( d&amp;o ) liability insurance relating to coverage we sought for claims relating to the previously disclosed government investigations and related litigation. we agreed to accept immediate payment of $32.5 million, including $6.7 million received by us in prior years, in satisfaction of the $45.0 million face amount of the relevant d&amp;o insurance policies and the carriers agreed to waive any rights they may have to challenge our coverage under the policies. no additional recoveries with respect to such matters are expected under our insurance policies and all expenses incurred by us in the future for these matters will not be further reimbursed by our insurance policies. the agreement and release did not include a $10.0 million face amount policy that we maintain for non-indemnifiable securities claims by directors and officers during the same time period and such policy is not affected by the agreement and release. we currently maintain insurance in the amount of $175.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. continuing negative publicity regarding the investigations, or the managed care industry in general, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. as a result of the ongoing federal and state investigations, shareholder and derivative litigation, restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. this negative publicity may harm our relationships with current and future investors, government regulators, associates, members, vendors and providers. for example, it is possible that the negative publicity and its effect on our work environment could cause our associates to terminate their employment or, if they remain employed by us, result in reduced morale that could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price and, therefore, associates and prospective associates may also consider our stability and the value of any equity incentives when making decisions regarding employment opportunities. additionally, negative publicity may adversely affect our reputation, which could harm our ability to obtain new membership, build or maintain our network of providers, or business in the future. for example, when making award determinations, states frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance and reputation. as a result, continuing negative publicity regarding the investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 35 table of contents in addition, the managed care industry historically has been subject to negative publicity. this publicity may result in increased legislation, regulation and review of industry practices and, in some cases, litigation. for example, the obama administration and certain members of congress have been questioning the profits of health insurance plans and the percentage of premiums paid that are going directly to health care benefits. these inquiries have resulted in news reports that are generally negative to the health insurance industry. these factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and services, require us to change our products and services and increase regulatory or legal burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and materially adversely affecting our busi ness, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, we had short-term investments of $108.8 million and $62.7 million, respectively. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, we had investments classified as long-term in the amount of $62.9 million and $51.7 million, respectively. we also had restricted investments of $107.6 million and $130.5 million, at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which consist principally of restricted deposits in accordance with regulatory requirements. the short-term investments consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and 12 months as well as longer term bonds with floating interest rates that are considered available for sale. restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their short-term nature, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2010, the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $0.6 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2010 would result in an increase of the fair value of our investments by less than $1.1 million.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business future changes in health care law present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. health care laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. changes in existing laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to undergo a corporate restructuring; increasing mandated benefits; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may materially adversely affect our profitability. requirements relating to managed care consumer protection standards, including increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim payment timing (claims for which no additional information is needed), physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. new health care reform legislation may require us to change the way we operate our business, which may be costly. further, although we strive to exercise care in structuring our operations to comply in all material respects with the laws and regulations applicable to us, government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing such laws and/or regulations have in the past asserted and may in the future assert that we, or transactions in which we are involved, are in violation of these laws, or courts may ultimately interpret such laws in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. therefore, it is possible that future legislation and regulation and the interpretation of laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate under our government-sponsored programs and to continue to serve our members and attract new members, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we believe the 2010 acts will bring about significant changes to the american health care system. while these measures are intended to expand the number of united states citizens covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery, and payment changes to the current health care system, the costs of implementing the 2010 acts will be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain level of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. provisions of the 2010 acts will become effective over the next several years. several departments within the federal government are responsible for issuing regulations and guidance on implementing the 2010 acts. however, states have independently proposed health insurance reforms and are challenging certain aspects of the 2010 acts in federal court. these challenges seek to limit the scope of the 2010 acts or have all or portions of the 2010 acts declared unconstitutional. judicial proceedings are subject to appeal and could last for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict the results of any of these proceedings. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to fully implement the 2010 acts or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal it altogether. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the 2010 acts could change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. in addition, the response of other companies to the 2010 acts and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful impact in the health care markets. further, various health insurance reform proposals are also emerging at the state level. it is reasonably possible that regulations related to the 2010 acts, as well as future legislative changes, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows by restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; lowering our medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments. in addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium tax is imposed as enacted, and if we are unable to adjust our business model to address this new tax, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 26 table of contents the 2010 acts include a number of changes to the way ma plans will operate, such as: reduced enrollment period . medicare beneficiaries generally have a limited annual enrollment period during which they can choose to participate in a ma plan rather than receive benefits under the traditional fee-for-service medicare program. after the annual enrollment period, most medicare beneficiaries are not permitted to change their medicare benefits until the following annual enrollment period. beginning with the 2012 plan year, the 2010 acts changed the annual enrollment period, which for 2012 began on october 15, 2011 and ended on december 7, 2011. previously, open enrollment was from november 15 to december 31. also, beginning on january 1, 2011, the 2010 acts mandate that persons enrolled in ma may disenroll only during the first 45 days of the year, and only may enroll in traditional medicare fee-for-service rather than another ma plan. prior law allowed a member to disenroll during the first 90 days of the year and enroll in another ma plan. reduced medicare premium rates . ma payment benchmarks for 2011 were frozen at 2010 levels and, beginning in 2012, cuts to ma plan payments will begin to take effect (plans will receive a range of 95% of medicare fee-for-service costs in high-cost areas to 115% of medicare fee-for-service costs in low-cost areas), with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of payment reduction in a county. in addition, beginning in 2011, the gap in coverage for medicare part d pdp began to incrementally close. cms star ratings . certain provisions in the 2010 acts tie ma premiums to the achievement of certain quality performance measures ( star ratings ). beginning in 2012, ma plans with an overall star rating of three or more stars (out of five) will be eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. initially, quality bonuses were limited to the few plans that achieved four or more stars as an overall rating, but cms has expanded the quality bonus to three star plans for a three year period through 2014. notwithstanding successful efforts to improve our star ratings and other quality measures for 2012 and 2013 and the continuation of such efforts, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our star ratings in future years. accordingly, our plans may not be eligible for full level quality bonuses, which could adversely affect the benefits such plans can offer, reduce membership and/or reduce profit margins. minimum mlrs . beginning in 2014, the 2010 acts require the establishment of a minimum mlr of 85% for the amount of premiums to be expended on medical benefits for ma plans. in november 2010 and december 2011, hhs issued rules clarifying the definitions and minimum mlr requirements for certain commercial health plans, but has not issued rules or guidance specific to ma plans. the rules that have been issued impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum mlr, including requirements to refund to cms shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's ma contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum mlr. mlr is determined by adding a plan's total reimbursement for clinical services plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). however, there can be no assurance that cms will interpret the minimum mlr requirement in the same manner for ma plans. although hhs has not issued specific guidance regarding the minimum loss ratio provision that is specific to ma plans, we are currently assessing the guidance issued for commercial plans in order to estimate which of our administrative costs might be considered to be quality improvement costs and be included as expense in the calculation. with respect to part d plans, in 2010, a rebate of $250 was provided by cms for beneficiaries reaching the coverage gap. in addition, beneficiaries reaching the coverage gap receive a 50% discount on brand-name drugs. thereafter, on a gradual basis, the coverage gap will be closed by 2020, with beneficiaries retaining a 25% co-pay. while this change ultimately results in increased insurance coverage, such improved benefits could result in changes in member behavior with respect to drug utilization. such actions could also impact the cost structure of our part d programs. 27 table of contents the health reforms in the 2010 acts present both challenges and opportunities for our medicaid business. the reforms expand the eligibility for medicaid programs. however, state budgets continue to be strained due to economic conditions and uncertain levels of federal financing for current populations. as a result, the effects of any potential future expansions are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net impact of the 2010 acts will be positive or negative for our medicaid business. the 2010 acts also include an annual assessment on the insurance industry beginning in 2014. the legislation anticipates that the $8 billion insurance industry assessment will increase in subsequent years. risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. cms employs a risk-adjustment model to determine the premium amount it pays for each member. this model apportions premiums paid to all ma plans according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. as a result, our cms monthly premium payments per member may change materially, either favorably or unfavorably. the cms risk-adjustment model pays more for medicare members with predictably higher costs. diagnosis data from inpatient and ambulatory treatment settings are used to calculate the risk-adjusted premiums we receive. we collect claims and encounter data and submit the necessary diagnosis data to cms within prescribed deadlines. after reviewing the respective submissions, cms establishes the premium payments to ma plans generally at the beginning of the calendar year, and then adjusts premium levels on two separate occasions on a retroactive basis. the first retroactive adjustment for a given fiscal year generally occurs during the third quarter of such fiscal year. the initial cms settlement represents the updating of risk scores for the current year based on the severity of claims incurred in the prior fiscal year. cms then issues the final cms settlement. we reassess the estimates of the initial cms settlement and the final cms settlement each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to ma premium revenue. we develop our estimates for risk-adjusted premiums utilizing historical experience and predictive models as sufficient member risk score data becomes available over the course of each cms plan year. our models are populated with available risk score data on our members. risk premium adjustments are based on member risk score data from the previous year. risk score data for members who entered our plans during the current plan year, however, are not available for use in our models; therefore, we make assumptions regarding the risk scores of this subset of our member population. all such estimated amounts are periodically updated as additional diagnosis code information is reported to cms and adjusted to actual amounts when the ultimate adjustment settlements are either received from cms or we receive notification from cms of such settlement amounts. as a result of the variability of certain factors that determine such estimates, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of cms retroactive payment could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of ma premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. historically, we have not experienced significant differences between the amounts that we have recorded and the revenues that we ultimately receive. the data provided to cms to determine the risk score are subject to audit by cms even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to cms previously received by us. while our experience to date has not resulted in a material refund, this refund could be significant in the future, which would reduce our premium revenue in the year that cms determines repayment is required. cms has performed and continues to perform radv audits of selected ma plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each ma member. our florida ma plan was selected by cms for audit for the 2007 contract year and we anticipate that cms will conduct additional audits of other plans and contract years on an ongoing basis. the cms audit process selects a sample of 201 enrollees for medical record review from each contract selected. we have responded to cms's audit requests by retrieving and submitting all available medical records and provider attestations to substantiate cms-sampled diagnosis codes. cms will use this documentation to calculate a payment error rate for our florida ma plan 2007 premiums. cms has not indicated a schedule for processing or otherwise responding to our submissions. cms has indicated that payment adjustments resulting from its radv audits will not be limited to risk scores for the specific beneficiaries for which errors are found, but will be extrapolated to the relevant plan population. in late december 2010, cms issued a draft audit sampling and payment error calculation methodology that it proposes to use in conducting these audits. cms invited public comment on the proposed audit methodology and announced in early february 2011 that it will revise its proposed approach based on the comments received. cms has not given a specific timetable for issuing a final version of the audit sampling and payment error calculation methodology. given that the radv audit methodology is new and is subject to modification, there is substantial uncertainty as to how it will be applied to ma organizations like our florida ma plan. at this time, we do not know whether cms will require retroactive or subsequent payment adjustments to be made using an audit methodology that may not compare the coding of our providers to the coding of original medicare and other ma plan providers, or whether any of our other plans will be randomly selected or targeted for a similar audit by cms . we are also unable to determine whether any conclusions that cms may make, based on the audit of our plan and others, will cause us to change our revenue estimation process. because of this lack of clarity from cms, we are unable to estimate with any reasonable confidence a coding or payment error rate or predict the impact of extrapolating an applicable error rate to our florida ma plan 2007 premiums. however, it is likely that a payment adjustment will occur as a result of these audits, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, possibly in 2012 and beyond. 28 table of contents two of our medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue during 2011, and our failure to retain our contracts in those states, or a change in conditions in those states, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our concentration of operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions or payment delays, a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or pandemic, or an unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. for the year ended december 31, 2011, two of our medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, which on a combined basis represented approximately 66% of our medicaid segment revenue and 39% of our consolidated premium revenues. these customers (florida and georgia) accounted for four separate contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. our two florida medicaid contracts expire in august 2012 and our florida chip contract expires in september 2012. we currently anticipate that the medicaid contracts will be replaced by one-year contracts while the state evaluates its medicaid programs; we also anticipate bidding for a new florida chip contract in 2012. our georgia contract was recently amended to provide two additional one-year renewal terms (for a total of eight renewals under this contract), allowing the state to renew through june 2014. if we lost this, or any of these other contracts, through the rebidding process and/or termination, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. medicaid premiums are fixed by contract and do not permit us to increase our premiums during the contract term despite any corresponding medical benefits expense exceeding estimates. most of our medicaid revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries. these payments are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to four years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by state and federal governments. we use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. we have less control over costs related to the provision of health care services than we have over our selling, general and administrative expense. if premiums do not increase when expenses related to medical services rise, our earnings will be affected negatively. further, our regulators set premiums using actuarial methods based on historical data. actual experience, however, could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. if our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, we will be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. some hospital contracts are directly tied to state medicaid fee schedules, in which case reimbursement levels will be adjusted up or down, based on adjustments made by the state to the impacted fee schedule. therefore, it is possible for a state to increase the rates payable by us to hospitals used by our members without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. we have experienced such adjustments in the states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively impacted. our actual medical services costs may exceed our estimates, which would cause our mbr, or our expenses related to medical services as a percentage of premium revenue, excluding premium taxes, to increase and our profits to decline. relatively small changes in our mbr can create significant changes in our financial results. accordingly, the failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses and to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported ( ibnr ) claims may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. historically, our medical benefits expense as a percentage of premium revenue has fluctuated within a relatively narrow band. for example, our medical benefits expense was 81.0%, 84.4% and 86.5% for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. however, at any point, certain factors may cause these percentages to increase. factors that may cause medical expenses to exceed our estimates include: an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including prescription drugs, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services, particularly in-patient hospital services, or unexpected utilization patterns; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician, and other provider contracts; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; new mandated benefits or other changes in health care laws, regulations, and practices; new treatments and technologies; and contractual disputes with providers, hospitals, or other service providers. 29 table of contents we attempt to control these costs through a variety of techniques, including capitation and other risk-sharing payment methods, collaborative relationships with pcps and other providers, case and disease management and quality assurance programs, and preventive and wellness visits for members. these efforts and programs to manage our medical expenses may not be sufficient to manage these expenses effectively in the future. if our medical expenses increase, our profits could be reduced or we may no longer be able to remain profitable. medicaid premiums are a significant portion of our total consolidated premium revenue and any significant delay in premium payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. over 58% of our consolidated revenues for 2011 consisted of medicaid premiums. we use a large portion of our revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to our members. we generally receive payment of medicaid premiums during the month in which we provide services, although we have experienced delays in receiving monthly payments from certain states and our ability to require timely payment is generally very limited. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could result in additional and more extensive delays than we have experienced in the past. for example, the georgia dch has recently informed us that it is delaying the payment of certain premiums for as much as $300 million during the first quarter of 2012, and then will restore these payments during the second quarter of 2012. if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. we derive a significant portion of our medicare revenue from our pdp operations, which we bid for annually. the results of our bid could materially reduce our revenue and profits. medicare part d premiums are a significant portion of our premium revenue. the amount of premium we receive is based on an annual competitive bidding process that may cause us to decrease premiums we will charge and/or enhance the benefits we offer. a significant portion of our pdp membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in cms-designated regions where our pdp premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. in general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding pdp membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. if our future part d premium bids are not below the cms benchmarks, we risk losing pdp members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional pdp members auto-assigned to us, which would materially reduce our revenue and profits. for example, in 2012, our pdp bids were below the relevant benchmarks in five of the 34 cms regions and within the de minimus range of the benchmark in 17 other cms regions. comparatively, in 2011, our pdp plans were below the benchmark in 20 regions and within the de minimus range in eight other regions. this change resulted in the loss of approximately 7% of our pdp membership from december 31, 2011 to january 1, 2012. failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts or maintain satisfactory quality scores, as measured by the government agencies, could negatively impact our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our members, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts. our contracts with cms and state government agencies contain provisions regarding quality measures, provider network maintenance, continuity of care, data submission, call center performance and other requirements. cms and several states have provisions or plans in place that measure the quality of care provided to our members, such as how we provide preventive care services, manage chronic illnesses, encourage proper emergency room utilization and minimize member complaints. these quality measures are, in some cases, based on results of surveys of members enrolled in our plans. however, we believe that members generally do not distinguish between issues caused by us, their providers or the coverage allowed under the government program. quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of cms , beginning in 2012, to pay bonuses to better-performing ma plans that enable those plans to offer improved member health benefits to attract more members. in certain states, plans that do not meet the quality measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, or pay penalties, or the plan may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. we anticipate that we may not meet some of the performance requirements of our contracts to provide services under the new york medicaid and fhp programs for the third consecutive year. if the state determines that we have failed to meet the contractual requirements, these contracts may be subject to termination, or other remedies, at the discretion of the state. we are unable to predict what actions the state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. under the terms of our contracts, we are subject to reviews, audits and examinations to verify and assess our compliance with those contracts and applicable laws and regulations. if any of these reviews, audits or examinations conclude that we have failed to comply with contract provisions or maintain satisfactory quality measures, any of the following could result: the refund of premiums we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; imposition of financial penalties or other sanctions; reduction or limitation of our membership, loss of our right to participate in the program; or loss of one or more of our licenses. our failure to comply could also impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets. any such actions could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. 30 table of contents our failure to maintain accreditations could disqualify us from participation in certain state medicaid programs, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. several of our medicaid contracts require that our plans or subcontracted providers be accredited by independent accrediting organizations that are focused on improving the quality of health care services. our florida, georgia, missouri and hawaii health plans are required by our medicaid contracts to be accredited, with our missouri contract specifying ncqa accreditation. further, florida medicaid plans can only subcontract behavioral health services to accredited organizations. our florida, georgia and missouri health plans have received accreditation from the requisite accrediting organizations. we have until july 1, 2012 to obtain accreditation for our hawaii health plan. there can be no assurances that we will maintain, or obtain, our accreditations, and the loss of, or failure to obtain accreditations required by contract could adversely our ability to participate in certain medicaid programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, cash flows and results of operations. if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could cease to be profitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive, or medical benefits ratio, can create significant changes in our financial results. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include: an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; and new mandated benefits or other changes in health care laws, regulations and/or practices. we manage our medical costs through a variety of techniques, including various methods of paying pcps and other providers, advance approval for certain hospital services and referral requirements, medical and quality management programs, information systems, and reinsurance arrangements. however, if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to continue managing these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits could be reduced or we may not remain profitable. we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, but we cannot assure that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. 31 table of contents we may be unable to expand into some geographic areas without incurring significant additional costs and if we are able to expand, ineffective management of our growth may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may be inhibited by: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary license to operate in the new area or the expansion of our licensed service area, if necessary; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; cms or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as cms star ratings; competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. accordingly, we may be unsuccessful in entering other metropolitan areas, counties or states, which may impede our growth. depending on opportunities, we expect to continue to increase our membership and to expand into other markets. however, such growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other resources and we are likely to incur additional costs if we enter states or counties where we do not currently operate. our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to retain and strengthen our management team and attract, train and retain skilled associates, and our ability to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to potential acquisitions, such growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. our prudent and profitable growth initiative may be limited if we are unable to raise additional unregulated cash at favorable financing terms, if needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business strategy has been defined by three primary initiatives, one of which includes our ability to enter new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines. we may need to access the credit or equity markets to partially fund these growth activities. our ability to enter new markets may be hindered in situations where we need to access these markets and financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. our ability to obtain favorable financing may be unfavorable in terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions and could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require to enter new markets, making such efforts unfeasible. depending on the outcome of these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty, or be unable to implement our growth strategy as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we rely on a number of vendors, and failure of any one of the key vendors to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we have contracted with a number of vendors to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management and behavioral health services for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. our dependence on these vendors makes our operations vulnerable to such third parties' failure to perform adequately under our contracts with them. in addition, where a vendor provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. significant failure by a vendor to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 32 table of contents we encounter significant competition for program participation, members and network providers, and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share and greater financial resources than we have in some markets. we compete with numerous types of competitors, including other medicaid or medicare health plans. we operate in, or may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable business which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service . we may not be able to develop innovative products and services which are attractive to members. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth, and control medical cost trends, and/or our pricing flexibility, may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. for a discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate, see part i, item 1 business competition . if we are unable to build and maintain satisfactory relationships with our providers, we may be precluded from operating in some markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and profitability. our profitability depends, in large part, on our ability to enter into cost-effective contracts with hospitals, physicians and other health care providers in appropriate numbers and at locations convenient for our members in each of the markets in which we operate. in any particular market, however, providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher medical benefits expense. in some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, have significant market positions. if such a provider or any of our other providers refused to contract with us or used its market position to negotiate contracts that might not be cost-effective or otherwise place us at a competitive disadvantage, those actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results in that market. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in the long term, our ability to contract successfully with a sufficiently large number of providers in a particular geographic market will affect the relative attractiveness of our managed care products in that market. if we are unsuccessful in negotiating satisfactory contracts with our network providers, it could preclude us from renewing our medicaid or medicare contracts in those markets, from being able to enroll new members or from entering into new markets. also, in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. our provider contracts with network pcps and specialists generally have terms of one year, with automatic renewal for successive one-year terms unless otherwise specified in writing by either party. we are also required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. we may be unable to maintain our relationships with our network providers or enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or on favorable terms. if we are unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our ongoing operations and profitability could be materially adversely affected. changes in our member mix may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. our revenues, costs and margins vary based on changes to our membership demographics and products. our revenues are generally comprised of fixed payments that are determined by the types of members in our plans. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs required to serve members with various demographic and health risk profiles. as such, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for an ssi member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes, there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. 33 table of contents if a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. our review of all remittance files to identify potential duplicate members, members that should be terminated or members for which we have been paid an incorrect rate may not identify all such members and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. as an example, during 2011 the georgia dch made premium adjustments in 2011 retroactive to the beginning of the program in 2006 for overpayments related to a reconciliation of duplicate member records. we had previously identified and accrued an estimated liability for overpayments that we believed would be returned to georgia dch and considering the adjustments to historical capitation premium rates that the georgia dch is making for the periods affected by duplicative enrollment, the net impact to premium revenue resulting from the adjustments was immaterial to our results of operations. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums that we believe to be erroneous, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation, including periodic reviews and audits under our contracts with government agencies, and any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any violation by us of applicable laws and regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 34 as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in: forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future service or geographic expansion; and suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with a current cms audit of one of our plans, see risk adjustment payment systems' make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations above. we are subject to laws, government regulations and agreements that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states control is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. in addition, certain of our preliminary settlements require us to make additional payments upon the occurrence of certain change of control events. these include a $35.0 million payment in the event that we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control within three years of the execution of the final settlement agreement with the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ), the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida (the usao ), and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut to settle their pending inquiries. additionally, if, within three years following the date of the settlement agreement with the lead plaintiffs in the consolidated securities class action against us, we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control at a share price of $30.00 or more, we will be required to pay to the class an additional $25.0 million. we are subject to extensive fraud and abuse laws which may give rise to lawsuits and claims against us, the outcome of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent, and some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. for example, in october 2008, the civil division informed us that as part of its pending civil inquiry, it was investigating four qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act, 31 u.s.c. sections 3729-3733. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. with respect to these actions, in june 2010 we announced that we reached a preliminary settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the usao, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut. please see part i, item 3 legal proceedings for additional information on these matters. however, other qui tam actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other qui tam actions may be filed against us in the future. 35 table of contents if we encounter unforeseen operational challenges relating to new business, or the programs are not successful, our business could be adversely affected. when a state implements a new managed care program, such as kentucky's medicaid managed care program or hawaii's quest program, there is a greater potential for unanticipated impacts on the health plan than with established programs. for example, the medicaid managed care program in kentucky, for which we began providing services to beneficiaries on november 1, 2011, is new for both the company and the commonwealth and such new programs present both opportunities and risks for us. the expedited timeframe in which the kentucky program has been implemented increases these risks. medicaid managed care operations vary from state to state as a result of variations in program design, covered benefits, health plan requirements and other factors. these variations add to the complexity of our business and increase the risk of unforeseen operational challenges associated with the new business, noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. if we are unable to manage the contract implementation process effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations. in august 2011, we entered into a $300.0 million credit agreement that provides for a senior secured term loan facility in the amount of up to $150.0 million and a senior secured revolving loan facility of up to $150.0 million. upon closing, we borrowed $150.0 million under the term loan facility. at december 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of the term loan was $146.3 million. no amounts have been drawn from the revolving loan facility to date. we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, regulatory and industry conditions, and placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and exposing us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our senior credit facilities is variable. our debt service obligations will require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt which could harm our long-term business prospects. restrictions and covenants in our debt obligations may limit our growth capabilities and our ability to declare dividends. failure to comply with covenants could result in our indebtedness being immediately due and payable. our credit agreement contains various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. if we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay indebtedness owed to our secured creditors, they could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. if we are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, underwriting, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, planning and analysis and e-commerce. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. 36 table of contents there can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our information systems and applications. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary data center operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover business functionality within stated timelines. our disaster plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, and such costs could be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, fines and penalties, possible liability and loss. our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by cancellation of contracts and loss of members if such breaches are not prevented. under the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( arra ), civil penalties for hipaa violations by covered entities are increased up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. in addition, imposition of these penalties is now more likely because arra strengthens enforcement. for example, commencing february 2010, hhs was required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties became mandatory in february 2011, are statutorily required. in addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of hipaa privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. initially monies collected will be transferred to a division of hhs for further enforcement, and within three years, a methodology will be adopted for distributing a percentage of those monies to affected individuals to fund enforcement and provide incentive for individuals to report violations. in addition, arra requires us to notify affected individuals, hhs, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. arra also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. while provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under arra, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state medicaid agencies. we are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. we will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under arra are promulgated and more guidance becomes available from hhs and other federal agencies. the new privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, employee education and resources and there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. given hipaa's complexity and the anticipated new regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the hipaa requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under arra and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. 37 table of contents federal regulations required entities subject to hipaa to update their transaction formats for electronic data exchange to the new hipaa 5010 standards; however, some entities are currently in transition to the new standards which could adversely impact administrative expense and compliance. a federal mandate known as hipaa 5010 required health plans to use new standards for conducting certain operational and administrative transactions electronically beginning in january 2012. these administrative transactions include: claims, remittance, eligibility and claims status requests and responses. the hipaa 5010 upgrade was prompted by government and industry's shared goal of providing higher-quality, lower-cost health care and the need for a comprehensive electronic data exchange environment for the icd-10 mandate to be implemented by october 2013. upgrading to the new hipaa 5010 standards should increase transaction uniformity, support pay for performance and streamline reimbursement transactions. we, along with other health plans, faced significant pressure to make sure that we installed our software and tested it for compatibility with our business partners. because hipaa 5010 affects electronic transactions such as patient eligibility, claims filing, claims status and remittance advice, we proceeded proactively to achieve full functionality of hipaa 5010 transactions, and did so, before the january 1, 2012 deadline. however, in november 2011, cms announced it would delay enforcement actions related to implementation of hipaa 5010 until march 31, 2012. to avoid disruption with providers, we are currently accepting administrative transactions that are not compliant with hipaa 5010. this creates additional expense as we have to convert the non-compliant data in our systems, but we believe this is required to avoid transaction rejections and subsequent payment delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. as the delayed implementation deadline approaches for full implementation of hipaa 5010, we will continue to test our claims management systems to prevent any operational disruptions. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new icd-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. hhs has released rules pursuant to hipaa which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. hhs also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. by 2013, the federal government will require that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions. these new standardized code sets, known as icd-10, will require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. while use of the icd-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, we believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. however, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services. if state regulatory agencies require a higher statutory capital level for our existing operations or if we become subject to additional capital requirements, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to our regulated subsidiaries, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our operations are conducted primarily through licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries. these subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. one or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. the phased-in increase in reserve requirements to which our new york plan is subject has, over time, materially increased our reserve requirements in that plan. other states may elect to adopt risk-based capital requirements based on guidelines adopted by the naic. as of december 31, 2011, our hmo operations in connecticut, georgia, illinois, indiana, louisiana, missouri, new jersey, ohio and texas as well as three of our insurance company subsidiaries were all subject to such guidelines. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. 38 table of contents failure of our state regulators to approve payments of dividends and/or distributions from certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, non-regulated cash flows, business and financial condition. in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. the discretion of the state regulators, if any, in approving or disapproving a dividend or intercompany transaction is often not clearly defined. health plans that declare ordinary dividends usually must provide notice to the regulators in advance of the intended distribution date of such dividend. extraordinary dividends require approval by state regulators prior to declaration. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. to the extent that our encounter data is inaccurate or incomplete, we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct this data and have been and could be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, in part, to set premium rates. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. there also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. as states increase their reliance on encounter data, challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. claims relating to medical malpractice and other litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. our providers involved in medical care decisions and associates involved in coverage decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. some states have passed or are considering legislation that permits managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations, or eliminates the requirement that providers carry a minimum amount of professional liability insurance. this kind of legislation has the effect of shifting the liability for medical decisions or adverse outcomes to the managed care organization. this could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or could cause us to pay additional premiums to increase our insurance coverage. therefore, successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers or our associates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are party to various other litigation matters (including the matters discussed in part i, item 3 legal proceedings ), some of which seek monetary damages. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and we may incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we maintain errors and omissions policies as well as other insurance coverage. however, potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, our insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations, or the amount of our insurance coverage may be inadequate. we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future or that insurance will continue to be available to us on a cost-effective basis. moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. the defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management's attention. as a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. 39 table of contents our inability to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property rights in our brand names for our health plans or enforce such rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to market our health plans under our brand names, including wellcare, healthease, staywell, harmony and ohana . we hold federal trademark registrations for the wellcare, "healthease" and "harmony" trademarks, and we are pursuing an application with the u.s. patent and trademark office to register ohana health plan, inc. &amp; design. we use the staywell trademark only in the state of florida, and, pursuant to an agreement with the staywell company, a health education company based in st. paul, minnesota, we will co-exist with their use of that term for very different kinds of services and will not pursue a federal registration of that trademark. it is possible that other businesses may have actual or purported rights in the same names or similar names to those under which we market our health plans, which could limit or prevent our ability to use these names, or our ability to prevent others from using these names. if we are unable to prevent others from using our brand names, if others prohibit us from using such names or if we incur significant costs to protect our intellectual property rights in such brand names, our business, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. difficulties in successfully executing acquisitions and other significant transactions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our business strategy, we may engage in discussions with third parties regarding potential acquisitions of program contract rights and related assets of other health plans, both in existing service areas and in new markets. we believe acquisitions may contribute to our growth strategy. however, many other potential acquirers have greater financial resources than we have. for this reason, among others, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to complete favorable acquisitions or that we will be able to obtain appropriate financing for these acquisitions, especially in light of the volatility in the capital markets over the past several years. in addition, we generally are required to obtain regulatory approval from federal and state agencies when making acquisitions. in the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not currently operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. furthermore, even if we currently operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain additional regulatory approval if the acquisition would result in operating in an area of the state in which we did not operate previously, and we would be required to renegotiate contracts with the network providers of the acquired business. we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition, or renegotiate the necessary provider contracts, in a timely manner, or at all. in addition to the difficulties discussed above, we would also be required to integrate and consolidate the acquired businesses within our existing operations, which may result in certain inherent difficulties: additional personnel who are not familiar with our operations and corporate culture; acquired provider networks may operate on different terms than our existing networks; existing members may decide to switch to another health care plan; and disparate administrative and information systems. we may be unable to successfully identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions, including integrating the acquired businesses on our information technology platform, or to implement our operations strategy in order to operate acquired businesses profitably. furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition which may or may not be consummated. these expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. if we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. reductions in medicaid or medicare funding by states or the federal government could significantly reduce our profitability. our revenues are derived primarily from medicaid premiums provided by the states in which we conduct business, and medicare advantage premiums provided by cms, an agency of the federal government. essentially, the federal government and states account for substantially all of our revenue. from time to time the federal government and many states change the level of funding for these health care programs with the consequence of adversely impacting our profitability. state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs. macroeconomic conditions in recent years have and are expected to continue to put pressure on state budgets as the medicaid eligible population increases. we anticipate this will require government agencies with which we contract to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 40 table of contents as noted above, our medicare advantage premium revenues come from cms and are dependent on federal government funding levels. the 2010 acts included significant cuts in payments to medicare advantage plans and restructured payments to these same plans. the 2010 acts froze 2011 benchmark rates at 2010 levels so that in 2011, medicate advantage plans did not receive rate increases to account for recent health care cost increases. additionally, continued government efforts to contain health care related expenditures, such as prescription drug costs, and other federal budgetary constraints that result in decreased funding of the medicare program, could lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits, the mandating of additional benefits with no corresponding increase in premium, and/or reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for medicare. such actions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. risks related to pending governmental investigations and litigation if we commit a material breach of our deferred prosecution agreement, we will likely be subject to prosecution of one or more criminal offenses, including health care fraud, which would cause us to be excluded from certain programs and would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in 2009 we entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (the dpa ) with the united states attorney's office for the mdiddle district of florida (the "usao") and the florida attorney general's office, resolving previously disclosed investigations by those offices. as previously disclosed, we paid the usao a total of $80.0 million pursuant to the terms of the dpa. pursuant to the dpa, the usao filed a one-count criminal information (the information ) in the u.s. district court for the middle district of florida (the federal court ), charging us with conspiracy to commit health care fraud against the florida medicaid program in connection with reporting of expenditures under certain community behavioral health contracts, and against the florida healthy kids program, under certain contracts, in violation of 18 u.s.c. section 1349. the usao recommended to the federal court that the prosecution of us be deferred during the duration of the dpa, which expires may 2012. in the event of a knowing and willful material breach of a provision of the dpa, the usao has broad discretion to prosecute us through the filed information or otherwise. we could also be prosecuted by the florida attorney general's office under such circumstances. in light of the provisions of the dpa, any such proceeding would likely result in one or more criminal convictions, including for health care fraud, which, in turn, would cause us to be excluded from certain programs and could result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. for more information regarding the dpa, please see part i, item 3- legal proceedings . the settlement we have reached with certain federal and state agencies relating to their investigations remains pending and the final resolution, or further delay in the final resolution, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. on april 26, 2011, we entered into certain settlement agreements which will resolve the inquiries of the civil division of the united states department of justice (the "civil division"), the usao and the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut (the usao connecticut ). these settlement agreements are related to four federal qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act, 31 u.s.c. sections 3729-3733 as well as one state qui tam action filed in leon county, florida, which is similar to one of the federal qui tam complaints. the settlement agreements are with (a) the united states, with signatories from the civil division, the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services ( oig-hhs ) and the civil divisions of the usao and the usao connecticut (the federal settlement agreement ) and (b) the following states: connecticut, florida, georgia, hawaii, illinois, indiana, missouri, new york and ohio (collectively, the state settlement agreements ). pursuant to these settlement agreements we have agreed, among other things, to pay a total of $137.5 million, plus interest, over a period of 36 months, and a possible contingent payment of $35.0 million upon the occurrence of certain change in control events. one of the relators has objected to the federal settlement agreement. in the case of an objection, the federal court is required to conduct a hearing (a fairness hearing ) to determine whether the proposed settlement is fair, adequate and reasonable under all the circumstances. the federal settlement agreement and the state settlement agreements will not be effective until the earlier of (a) the execution of the federal settlement agreement by the objecting relator or (b) entry by the federal court of a final order determining that the settlement is fair, adequate and reasonable under all the circumstances. 41 table of contents if the objecting relator does not execute the federal settlement agreement and the federal court does not approve the settlement at a fairness hearing then the actual outcome of these matters may differ materially from the terms of the settlement described above. if the federal court determines that the settlement is not fair, adequate and reasonable under all the circumstances, we may be required to pay an amount in excess of the amount contemplated by the settlement agreements. the final resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. for more information regarding the settlement, please see part i, item 3 legal proceedings . in addition, the pendency of these matters could impair our ability to expand our business and/or to raise additional capital, which may be needed to pay any resulting interest, civil or criminal fines, penalties or other assessments. if we commit a material breach of our corporate integrity agreement, we may be excluded from certain programs, resulting in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on april 26, 2011, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (the corporate integrity agreement ) with oig-hhs. the corporate integrity agreement has a term of five years and concludes the previously disclosed matters relating to us under review by oig-hhs. the corporate integrity agreement requires us to maintain various ethics and compliance programs designed to help ensure our ongoing compliance with federal health care program requirements. the terms of the corporate integrity agreement include certain organizational structure requirements, internal monitoring requirements, compliance training, screening processes for new employees, requirements for reporting to oig-hhs, and the engagement of an independent review organization to review and prepare written reports regarding, among other things, our reporting practices and bid submissions to federal health care programs. if we fail to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement we may be required to pay certain monetary penalties. furthermore, if we commit a material breach of the corporate integrity agreement, oig-hhs may exclude us from participating in federal health care programs. any such exclusion would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses and potentially have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation, including the matters discussed in part i, item 3 legal proceedings . in connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses to several of our current and former directors, officers and associates and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. in august 2010, we entered into an agreement and release with the carriers of our directors and officers ( d&amp;o ) liability insurance relating to coverage we sought for claims relating to the previously disclosed government investigations and related litigation. we agreed to accept immediate payment of $32.5 million, including $6.7 million received by us in prior years, in satisfaction of the $45.0 million face amount of the relevant d&amp;o insurance policies and the carriers agreed to waive any rights they may have to challenge our coverage under the policies. no additional recoveries with respect to such matters are expected under our insurance policies and all expenses incurred by us in the future for these matters will not be further reimbursed by our insurance policies. the agreement and release did not include a $10.0 million face amount policy that we maintain for non-indemnifiable securities claims by directors and officers during the same time period and such policy is not affected by the agreement and release. we currently maintain insurance in the amount of $125.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. 42 table of contents continuing negative publicity regarding the investigations, or the managed care industry in general, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. as a result of the federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, we have been the subject of negative publicity. this negative publicity may harm our relationships with current and future investors, government regulators, associates, members, vendors and providers. negative publicity may adversely affect our reputation, which could harm our ability to obtain new membership, build or maintain our network of providers, or business in the future. for example, when making award determinations, states frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation. in most cases where we are bidding for new business we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. as a result, continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding the investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. in addition, the managed care industry historically has been subject to negative publicity. this publicity may result in increased legislation, regulation and review of industry practices and, in some cases, litigation. for example, the obama administration and certain members of congress have been questioning the profits of health insurance plans and the percentage of premiums paid that are going directly to health care benefits. these inquiries have resulted in news reports that are generally negative to the health insurance industry. these factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and services, require us to change our products and services and increase regulatory or legal burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. as of december 31, 2011 and 2010, we had short-term investments of $198.6 million and $108.8 million, respectively. the short-term investments consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and 12 months as well as longer term bonds with floating interest rates that are considered available for sale. we held restricted investments of $60.7 million and $107.6 million, at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which consist principally of cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments required by various state statutes or regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. because of the short-term nature of short-term and restricted investments, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, we held investments classified as long-term in the amount of $83.0 million and $62.9 million, respectively. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2011, the fair value of our long-term fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $0.8 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2011 would result in an increase of the fair value of our investments by less than $0.8 million. 77 table of contentsrisk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business failure to maintain satisfactory quality scores could negatively impact our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts. quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of cms, to pay bonuses to better-performing ma plans that enable those plans to offer improved member health benefits to attract more members. in certain states, plans that do not meet the quality measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, or pay penalties, or the plan may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. if the state determines that we have failed to meet the contractual requirements, these contracts may be subject to termination, or other remedies, at the discretion of the state. we are unable to predict what actions the state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. in addition, lower quality scores compared to our competitors may result in us losing potential new business in new markets, obtaining regulatory approval for acquisitions and expansions or dissuading potential members from choosing our plan in markets in which we already compete. as a result, lower quality scores compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our rate of growth. medicaid premiums are fixed by contract and do not permit us to increase our premiums during the contract term, therefore, if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could cease to be profitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive, or medical benefits ratio, can create significant changes in our financial results. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include: the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion, whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected; 29 table of contents an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; and new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations and/or practices. if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits could be reduced or we may not remain profitable. most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, determined by the types of members in our plans. these payments are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to four years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by states and the federal government. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs using actuarial methods based on historical data. actual experience, however, could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. if our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, and we are unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in particular, our medicaid plan in kentucky has operated at an mbr of greater than 100% for each period since we began our operations there in november 2011. while we have begun to improve care coordination to manage costs, and we have received revenue enhancements from kentucky, we cannot be assured that these efforts will be successful or sufficient. in addition, one of the other managed care plans in kentucky announced its intention to terminate its contract with the commonwealth effective july 2013, and some of those members may be transferred to our plan; however, the plan may decide to remain in kentucky or we may not be allocated any of these members even if the other plan does exit kentucky. the addition of these members may adversely impact our mbr in kentucky. in addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for an ssi member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes, there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. our membership is concentrated in certain geographic areas in the u.s., and unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in those geographic areas could therefore have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. some provider contracts are directly tied to state medicaid fee schedules, which the state or cms may adjust without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. for example, in florida the state is considering implementing changes to the medicaid fee schedules, which may increase our reimbursement rates to providers. we have experienced such adjustments in the states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively impacted. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. in some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. the uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure you that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. 30 table of contents difficulties in successfully executing acquisitions, expansions and other significant transactions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our prudent, profitable growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations. in 2012, we completed two acquisitions, easy choice in california and desert canyon in arizona, and in january 2013, we completed our acquisition of unitedhealth group incorporated's south carolina medicaid plan. our acquisition of aetna, inc.'s missouri medicaid plan is pending closing. once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. other potential acquirers may have greater financial resources or different profitability criteria than we have. depending on the transaction size, we may not be able to obtain appropriate financing, especially in light of the volatility in the capital markets over the past several years. even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. we may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities. in addition, when making award determinations and regulatory approvals of acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. as a result of the previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and employees that is scheduled to begin in the first quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. as a result, continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow. once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating the businesses within our existing operations, due to: associates who must become familiar with our operations and corporate culture; acquired provider networks which operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated; existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan; disparate administrative and information technology systems; and difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably. furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity which may not be successful. these expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. if we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary license to operate in the new area or the expansion of our licensed service area, if necessary; lower quality scores compared to our competitors; participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; cms or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as cms star ratings; competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. 31 table of contents in any program start-up, acquisition, expansion, or re-bid, the implementation of the contract as designed may be affected by factors beyond our control. these include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbency, participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, and noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively impacted by these delays or changes. growth could also place a significant strain on our management and on other resources and we are likely to incur additional costs if we enter states or counties where we do not currently operate. our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to retain and strengthen our management team; attract, train and retain skilled associates; and implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could materially adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. future changes in health care law present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. future changes in existing health care laws or regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to change our operating structure; increasing mandated benefits; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, "clean claim" payment timing (claims for which no additional information is needed), mandated increases in provider reimbursement rates, physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may materially adversely affect our profitability. we believe the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the "2010 acts") will bring about significant changes to the american health care system. these measures are intended to expand the number of united states residents covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery, and payment changes to the current health care system. the costs of implementing the 2010 acts will be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. the 2010 acts will also impose certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible and annual assessments on all health insurers, worth approximately $8 billion beginning in 2014, which will increase in subsequent years. the imposition of this assessment will impact our operating margins. in addition, in states in which we compete with not-for profit medicaid health plans, we may need to reduce margins in order to assure price competitiveness. as a result, this new tax may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. on june 28, 2012, the u.s. supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate contained in the 2010 acts and modified the medicaid expansion provisions to make the expansion optional for states. some states have decided not to participate in the medicaid expansion, and more states may choose not to participate in the future. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to fully implement the 2010 acts or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal it altogether. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the 2010 acts could change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. 32 table of contents regulations related to the 2010 acts, as well as future legislative changes, in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows by restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; lowering our medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments. in addition, the response of other companies to the 2010 acts and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful impact in the health care markets. the 2010 acts include a number of changes that could impact the way ma plans will operate, such as: reduced medicare premium rates. in 2012, ma plans received a range of 95% of medicare fee-for-service costs in high-cost areas to 115% of medicare fee-for-service costs in low-cost areas, with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of payment reduction in a county. cms star ratings. certain provisions in the 2010 acts tie ma premiums to the achievement of star ratings. beginning in 2012, ma plans with an overall star rating of three or more stars (out of five) are eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. initially, quality bonuses were limited to the few plans that achieved a four or higher overall star rating, but cms expanded the quality bonus to plans with a three overall star rating for a three year period through 2014. members of congress have challenged whether cms had the authority to expand the quality bonus. we cannot predict the ultimate resolution of this matter or the impact on our plans' quality bonus eligibility. plans that receive quality bonuses may have a competitive advantage in the medicare market, as they may be able to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. also, beginning with open enrollment for the 2014 plan year, part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years will be excluded from mention in the cms "medicare and you" handbook, denoted as "low performing" plans on the cms website, and excluded from on-line enrollment through the medicare plan finder website. these actions may adversely impact these plans' ability to maintain or increase membership. in addition, in april 2012, cms announced that part c and part d medicare plans with an overall star rating of less than three stars for three consecutive years may be terminated at cms' discretion beginning on january 1, 2015. some of our plans have less than three stars. while we are continuing efforts to improve our star ratings and other quality measures for 2013 and beyond, there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain or improve our star ratings in future years. minimum mlrs. beginning in 2014, the 2010 acts require ma plans to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical benefits. while the department of health and human services ("hhs") has issued rules clarifying the definitions and minimum medical loss ratio ("mlr") requirements for certain commercial health plans, it has not issued rules or guidance specific to medicare plans. the rules that have been issued impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum mlr ratio, including requirements to refund to cms shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's ma contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum mlr ratio. cms is considering imposing the minimum mlr on part d plans as well. from 2010 through 2020, the "coverage gap" (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications) under part d will be gradually closed, with beneficiaries retaining a 25% co-pay. while this change ultimately results in increased insurance coverage, such improved benefits could result in changes in member behavior with respect to drug utilization. such actions could also impact the cost structure of our part d programs. the health reforms in the 2010 acts present both challenges and opportunities for our medicaid business. the reforms allow states to expand eligibility for medicaid programs. however, state budgets continue to be strained due to economic conditions and uncertain levels of federal financing for current populations. as a result, the effects of any potential future expansions are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net impact of the 2010 acts will be positive or negative for our medicaid business. we encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. we operate in, or may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable business which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 33 table of contents regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. regulators may prefer companies that operate in multiple lines of business when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, in which we may not operate. we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. we may not be able to develop innovative products and services which are attractive to members. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. we may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry and other businesses. if we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. in particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. our ma plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. the independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may frequently also recommend and/or market health care benefits products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth, and control medical cost trends, and/or our pricing flexibility, may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and results of operations. for a discussion of the competitive environment in which we operate, see part i, item 1 business competition . risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. this model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms, and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. we reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to premium revenue. as a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payment could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required. government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. it is likely that a payment adjustment will occur as a result of these audits, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. 34 table of contents our medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. loss of a material contract, reduced premium rates, or delayed payment of earned premiums may adversely impact our business. our concentration of operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions or payment delays, a loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or pandemic, or an unexpected increase in utilization, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we provide managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving benefits under federal assistance programs, including medicare advantage, medicaid, chip and abd. we provide those health care services under contracts with regulatory entities in the areas in which we operate. for the year ended december 31, 2012, three of our medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes. these customers (florida, georgia and kentucky) accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. our florida medicaid contracts expire in august 2015, however we currently anticipate that these will be terminated early , possibly as early as the end of 2013 . the florida agency that operates the state's medicaid program recently began a competitive procurement process to award contracts for medicaid managed care across the state. the agency expects to award contracts under the competitive procurement in 2013. we currently intend to submit a proposal under this process but we cannot assure you our proposal will be successful. our contracts with other states are generally intended to run for one to three years and in some cases may be extended for one or two additional years if the state or its agent elects to do so. our current state contracts are set to expire or renew between june 2013 and december 2015. when our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care providers. there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. if any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed, renewed on less favorable terms, or not renewed on a timely basis, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected. state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs due to difficult macroeconomic conditions and increases in the medicaid eligible population. we anticipate this will require government agencies with which we contract to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we derive a significant portion of our medicare revenue from our pdp operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. the results of our bids could materially impact our revenue and profits. a significant portion of our pdp membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in cms-designated regions where our pdp premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. in general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding pdp membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. if our future part d premium bids are not below the cms benchmarks, we risk losing pdp members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional pdp members auto-assigned to us, which would materially reduce our revenue and profits. 35 table of contents based on the outcome of our 2013 pdp bids, our plans are below the benchmarks in 14 of the 34 cms regions and within the de minimis range of the benchmark in five other cms regions. in 2013, newly-eligible members are being auto-assigned into our plans for the 14 regions that are below the benchmark. we will retain our auto-assigned members in the five regions in which we bid within the de minimis range; however, we will not be auto-assigned new members in those regions during 2013. as of january 1, 2013, the beneficiaries who had previously been auto-assigned to our plans in the 15 regions in which our bids were neither below the benchmark nor within the de minimis range were reassigned to other plans. we are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. the following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face: claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations; claims relating to sales practices; claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments; claims relating to claims payments and procedures; claims relating to provider marketing; anti-kickback claims; medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers' alleged malpractice or negligence; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; allegations of discrimination; allegations of breaches of duties; claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings; allegations of agent misconduct; claims related to deceptive trade practices; and claims relating to audits and contract performance. as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit, investigation or adverse result from litigation could result in: forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; reduction or limitation of our membership; loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future service or geographic expansion; and suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service. in particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as "fraud and abuse" laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent. 36 table of contents some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions. for example, in october 2008, the civil division of the united states department of justice (the "civil division") informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. with respect to these actions, in april 2012, we announced that we reached a settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut. however, other qui tam actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other qui tam actions may be filed against us in the future. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. in connection with some of these pending matters, including the upcoming criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. we have exhausted our insurance for these matters, and expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be further reimbursed. we currently maintain insurance in the amount of $125.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with these audits, see risk adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations above. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. we rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our care and service delivery model is designed to optimize our use of our personnel versus third parties based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success. as a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management and behavioral health services for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. we have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. if a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. 37 table of contents we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums that we believe to be erroneous, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. to the extent that our encounter data is inaccurate or incomplete, we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct this data and have been and could be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, in part, to set premium rates. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. there also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. we have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. as states increase their reliance on encounter data these difficulties could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. if we are unable to have access to sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions due to our existing credit agreement, restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries, or higher statutory capital levels, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business strategy has been defined by three primary initiatives, one of which includes our ability to enter new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines. we may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities. our ability to enter new markets may be hindered in situations where we need to access the public markets and financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. our ability to obtain favorable financing may be unfavorable in terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions and could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require to enter new markets, making such efforts unfeasible. our credit agreement has restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our senior credit facilities is variable. 38 table of contents our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt which could harm our long-term business prospects. our credit agreement contains various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. if we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. if we were unable to repay indebtedness owed to our secured creditors, they could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. in addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. extraordinary dividends require approval by state regulators prior to declaration. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. our licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. one or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. if we commit a material breach of our corporate integrity agreement, we may be excluded from certain programs, resulting in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on april 26, 2011, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (the "corporate integrity agreement") with the officer of inspector general of the department of health and human services ("oig-hhs"). the corporate integrity agreement has a term of five years and concludes the previously disclosed matters relating to us under review by oig-hhs. the corporate integrity agreement requires us to maintain various ethics and compliance programs that were designed to help ensure our ongoing compliance with federal health care program requirements. the terms of the corporate integrity agreement include certain organizational structure requirements, internal monitoring requirements, compliance training, screening processes for new employees, requirements for reporting to oig-hhs, and the engagement of an independent review organization to review and prepare written reports regarding, among other things, our reporting practices and bid submissions to federal health care programs. if we fail to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement we may be required to pay certain monetary penalties. furthermore, if we commit a material breach of the corporate integrity agreement, oig-hhs may exclude us from participating in federal health care programs. any such exclusion would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses and potentially have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 39 table of contents we are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could impact our investment portfolio. our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of wellcare's assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could impact the value or liquidity of our investment portfolio and adversely impact interest income. as a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. risks related to ownership of our stock we are subject to laws, government regulations and agreements that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states "control" is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. in addition, certain of our settlements require us to make additional payments upon the occurrence of certain change of control events. these include a $35.0 million payment in the event that we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control within three years of march 23, 2012, the effective date of the final settlement agreement with the civil division of the united states department of justice (the "civil division"), the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida (the "usao"), and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut to settle their pending inquiries. additionally, if, within three years following the may 4, 2011 execution of the settlement agreement with the lead plaintiffs in the consolidated securities class action against us, we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control at a share price of $30.00 or more, we will be required to pay to the class an additional $25.0 million. (17) our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. from time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: variations in our operating results; changes in the market's expectations about our future operating results; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the health care industry generally; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; news reports relating to trends in our markets; changes or proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting our business; acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; and sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur. we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. we have an effective shelf registration statement on form s-3 filed with the sec under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. the registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the sec's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use form s-3. additional equity financing will be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. 40 table of contents sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. these sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. risks related to information technology if we are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. there can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our information systems, applications and critical business functions. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. our plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our costs to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information could be significant, and any disruptions or security breaches in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. failure to keep our computer networks, information technology systems, computers and programs and our members' and customers' sensitive information secure from attack, damage or unauthorized access, whether as a result of our action or inaction or that of one of our business associates or other vendors, could adversely affect our reputation, membership and revenues and also expose us to mandatory disclosure to the media, contract termination, litigation (including class action litigation), and other enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, operating results or financial condition. 41 table of contents our measures to prevent security breaches may not be successful. as we expand our business, including through acquisitions and organic growth, increase the amount of information we make available to members and consumers on mobile devices and expand our use of social media, our exposure to these data security and related cybersecurity risks, including the risk of undetected attacks, damage or unauthorized access, increases, and the cost of attempting to protect against these risks also increases. under the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ("arra"), civil penalties for hipaa violations by covered entities are increased up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. in addition, imposition of these penalties is now more likely because arra strengthens enforcement. for example, commencing february 2010, hhs was required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties became mandatory in february 2011, are statutorily required. in addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of hipaa privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. initially monies collected will be transferred to a division of hhs for further enforcement and, within three years, a methodology will be adopted for distributing a percentage of those monies to affected individuals to fund enforcement and provide incentive for individuals to report violations. in addition, arra requires us to notify affected individuals, hhs, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. arra also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. while provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under arra, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state medicaid agencies. we are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. we will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under arra are promulgated and more guidance becomes available from hhs and other federal agencies. the new privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, associate education and resources and there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. given hipaa's complexity and the anticipated new regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the hipaa requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under arra and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new icd-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. hhs has released rules pursuant to hipaa which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. hhs also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. by october 2014, the federal government will require that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions. these new standardized code sets, known as icd-10, will require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. while use of the icd-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, we believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. however, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. investment return market risk as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , our short-term investment portfolio of $220.3 million and $198.6 million , respectively, consisted of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and 12 months, as well as longer term bonds with floating interest rates that we consider available for sale. we held restricted investments of $67.4 million and $60.7 million , at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively, which consist principally of cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments required by various state statutes or regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. because of the short-term nature of short-term and restricted investments, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , we held investments classified as long-term in the amount of $96.7 million and $83.0 million , respectively. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2012 , the fair value of our long-term fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $3.1 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates would result in an increase of the fair value of our investments by less than $3.2 million. interest rate market risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates on our amended credit agreement, as amended, which is subject to variable interest rates dependent upon the adjusted libor for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin. interest rate changes impact the amount of our interest payments and, therefore, our future earnings and cash flows, assuming other factors are held constant. based on outstanding debt balances and interest rates as of december 31, 2012 , a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on our amended credit agreement would increase annual interest expense by approximately $1.4 million. similarly, a 100 basis point decrease in assumed interest rates would decrease annual interest expense by $1.4 million.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business failure to maintain satisfactory quality scores could negatively impact our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations. quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), to pay bonuses to medicare advantage ( ma ) plans that enable high scoring plans to offer enhanced member health benefits which are attractive to members. plan performance is judged on 11 elements, including quality scores. plans judged to be low performing for 3 consecutive years risk contract termination. in 2013, our ma plans in arizona, georgia, louisiana and missouri and the windsor ma plans we acquired in january 2014 each received at least one quality score, or star rating , of 2.5 for at least the third consecutive year. if these star ratings do not improve, these plans may be terminated by cms as early as plan year 2015. because we serve a larger percentage of d-snp members than our competitors, and our quality scores do not reflect certain socio-economic factors, star ratings for certain of our plans may not improve, which may prevent us from receiving a quality bonus for those plans. in addition, plans with a low performance score participating in state medicare-medicaid dual-eligible demonstration programs are ineligible for passive enrollment, which is likely to result in lower market share in those programs. in certain state medicaid programs, plans that do not meet applicable quality measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, or pay penalties, or the plan may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. in addition, if the state determines that a health plan has failed to meet the contractual requirements, these contracts may be subject to termination, or other remedies, such as liquidated damages, at the discretion of the state. we are unable to predict what actions a state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. in addition, lower quality scores compared to our competitors may result in negative business development outcomes in new markets, our failing to obtain regulatory approval for acquisitions or expansions, and/or negative marketing outcomes in markets in which we already compete for membership on bases including quality scores. as a result, lower quality scores compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations. medicaid premiums are fixed by contract and do not permit us to increase our premiums during the contract term, therefore, if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could cease to be profitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive (the medical benefits ratio or mbr ) can create significant changes in our financial results. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include: the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion, whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected; an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; challenges in implementing medical expense cost control initiatives; and 31 table of contents new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations and/or practices. if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits would likely be reduced or we may not remain profitable. most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, determined by the types of members in our plans. these payments are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to four years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by states and the federal government. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs using actuarial methods based on historical data. actual experience, however, could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. if our medical benefits expense exceeds our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, and we are unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. several medicaid programs establish an mlr, requiring health plans to spend not less than a certain percentage of premiums on medical benefits. if a minimum medical loss ratio is not met, then we could be required to refund premiums back to the state or cms, as applicable. in addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for a supplemental security income ( ssi ) member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes, there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. our membership is concentrated in certain geographic areas in the u.s., and unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in those geographic areas could therefore have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. for the year ended december 31, 2013, three of our medicaid customers each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes: florida, georgia and kentucky. some provider contracts are directly tied to state medicaid or medicare fee schedules, which the state or cms, respectively, may increase without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. for example, in connection with florida's medicaid reform initiative, the florida agency for health care administration ("ahca") has recently implemented a new payment structure for covered inpatient services under florida medicaid's fee-for-service program. as of july 1, 2013, ahca is reimbursing providers for such services based on a diagnosis related group ("drg") schedule. this change impacts the payments we make to our contracted providers whose contracts with us are tied to florida medicaid fee-for-service rates. in addition, we are in the process of transitioning other contracted inpatient service providers in our florida medicaid network to this payment methodology. we have experienced similar types of adjustments in other states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively impacted. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. in some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. the uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure you that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. 32 table of contents difficulties in successfully executing and integrating acquisitions, expansions and other significant transactions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. as part of our growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations. in 2012, we completed two acquisitions, easy choice health plan, inc. in california and certain assets of desert canyon community care in arizona, and in the first quarter of 2013, we completed our acquisition of unitedhealth group incorporated's south carolina medicaid plan and aetna, inc.'s missouri medicaid plan. we are still integrating certain aspects of these acquisitions into our operations. in january 2014, we completed our acquisition of windsor health group, inc. ( windsor ) from munich health north america, inc, a part of munich re. through its subsidiaries, windsor serves medicare beneficiaries with medicare advantage, prescription drug plan and medicare supplement products. in september 2013, we entered into an agreement to acquire certain assets of healthfirst health plan of new jersey, inc., which operates a medicaid health plan in 12 counties in new jersey. we expect the acquisition to close during the second quarter of 2014, subject to customary regulatory approvals. once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. other potential acquirers may have greater financial resources or different profitability criteria than we have. depending on the transaction size, we may not be able to obtain appropriate financing, especially in light of the volatility in the capital markets over the past several years. even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. we may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities. once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating the businesses within our existing operations, due to: new associates who must become familiar with our operations and corporate culture; acquired provider networks that operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated; existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan; disparate administrative and information technology systems; and difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably. furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity, which may not be successful. these expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. if we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals to operate; lower quality scores compared to our competitors; participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; cms or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as cms star ratings ( star ratings ); competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. in any program start-up, acquisition, expansion, or re-bid, the implementation of the contract as designed may be affected by factors beyond our control. these include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbency, participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, 33 table of contents and noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively impacted by these delays or changes. in addition, when making award determinations and evaluating proposed acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation; and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. as a result of the previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, the restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and employees that concluded in the second quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. as a result, continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow. growth could also place a significant strain on our management and on other resources and we are likely to incur additional costs if we enter states or counties where we do not currently operate. our ability to manage our growth may depend on our ability to retain and strengthen our management team; attract, train and retain skilled associates; and implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, due to the initial substantial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could adversely impact our short-term profitability and liquidity. furthermore, we may incur unusual or non-recurring expenses in connection with the integration and execution of acquisitions, expansions, and other significant transactions. the requirements of the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the affordable care act ), may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we believe the affordable care act will continue to bring about significant changes to the american health care system. these measures are intended to expand the number of united states residents covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery, and payment changes to the current health care system. the costs of implementing the affordable care act will be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. on june 28, 2012, the u.s. supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate contained in the affordable care act and modified the medicaid expansion provisions to make the expansion optional for states. some states have decided not to participate in the medicaid expansion, and more states may choose not to participate in the future. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to fully implement the affordable care act, may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or could seek to repeal the law altogether. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the affordable care act could change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. regulations and policies related to the implementation of the affordable care act, the budget control act of 2011, the continuing appropriations act of 2014 as well as future legislative changes, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows by: restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; and lowering our medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments. in addition, the response of other companies to these policy, regulatory and legislative changes and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful impact in the health care markets. the affordable care act includes a number of changes that could impact the way ma plans will operate, such as: reduced medicare premium rates . in addition to the 2% sequestration cut, 2014 benchmark rates resulted in a decrease of between 2.0 to 4.0% and a further risk coding intensity reduction of 4.91% compared to 2013 rates. 34 table of contents cms star ratings . certain provisions in the affordable care act tie ma premiums to the achievement of star ratings. from 2012 to 2014, ma plans with an overall star rating of three or more stars (out of five) are eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. beginning in 2015, only those plans that have a four or higher overall star rating will be eligible for the quality bonus. plans that receive quality bonuses may have a competitive advantage in the medicare market, as they may be able to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. also, beginning with open enrollment for the 2014 plan year, part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are excluded from mention in the cms medicare and you handbook, denoted as low performing plans on the cms website, and excluded from on-line enrollment through the medicare plan finder website. these actions may adversely impact these plans' ability to maintain or increase membership. in addition, part c and part d medicare plans with any star ratings (part c or part d) of less than three stars for three consecutive years may be terminated at cms' discretion beginning on january 1, 2015. our plans in arizona, georgia, louisiana and missouri and the windsor ma plans we acquired have had at least one star rating of less than three stars for three consecutive years or more. while we are continuing efforts to improve our star ratings and other quality measures, there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain or improve our star ratings. minimum mlrs . beginning in 2014, the affordable care act requires the establishment of a minimum medical loss ratio ( mlr ) for ma plans, and part d plans, requiring them to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical benefits. the rules implementing the minimum mlr impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum mlr, including requirements to refund to cms shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's ma contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum mlr. mlr is determined by adding a plan's total reimbursement for clinical services plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). under the affordable care act, over a 10 year period beginning in 2010, the coverage gap (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications) under part d has been gradually closing, with beneficiaries retaining a 25% co-pay in 2020. while this change ultimately results in increased insurance coverage for beneficiaries, such improved benefits could result in changes in member behavior with respect to drug utilization. such actions could impact the cost structure of our part d programs. the affordable care act will impose certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as an annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment (the "industry fee") on health insurers beginning in 2014. the total industry fee levied on the health insurance industry will be $8 billion in 2014, with increasing annual amounts thereafter and growing to $14.3 billion by 2018. after 2018, the industry fee increases according to an index based on net premium growth. the assessment will be levied on certain health insurers that provide insurance in the assessment year, and will be allocated to health insurers based on each health insurer's share of net premiums for all u.s health insurers in the year preceding the assessment. the industry fee will not be deductible for income tax purposes, which will significantly increase our effective income tax rate. we currently estimate that we will incur between approximately $125 to $135 million in such fees in 2014, based on our estimated share of total 2013 industry premiums. however, the final fee amount will not be determined until august 2014. we currently expect to be reimbursed by our state customers for the impact of the fee on our medicaid plans, including its non-deductibility for income tax purposes. however, the timing of revenue recognition for such reimbursement may be delayed and not match the expense recognition of the fee, depending on the timing of contractual agreements. ma and pdp premium rates will not be adjusted to offset the impact of the fee. the naic is continuing discussions regarding the statutory accounting for the industry fee, and may provide guidance that is contradictory to gaap by requiring an accrual of the fee during the year preceding payment, therefore, we are not able to determine the impact on the statutory capital and surplus of our regulated subsidiaries at this time. the health reforms in the affordable care act allow, but do not require, states to expand eligibility for medicaid programs. however, state budgets continue to be strained due to economic conditions and uncertain levels of federal financing for current populations. as a result, the effects of any potential future expansions are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net impact of the affordable care act will be positive or negative for our medicaid business. future changes in health care law present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. future changes in, or intepretations to, existing health care laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: 35 table of contents imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to change our operating structure; requiring significant additional reporting and technological capabilities; imposing additional fees and taxes, which cannot be offset by increased premium revenue; increasing mandated benefits; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; and requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim (claims for which no additional information is needed) payment methodologies and timing, utilization of mail order pharmacy, administrative simplification, mandatory network inclusion of certain providers, mandated increases in provider reimbursement rates, physician collective bargaining rights and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may have an adverse impact our profitability, which could be material. our medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. loss of a material contract, reduced premium rates, or delayed payment of earned premiums may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. our concentration of operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions, payment delays, loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, epidemics, pandemics, unexpected increases in utilization, difficulties in managing provider costs, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we provide managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving benefits under federal assistance programs, including medicare advantage, medicaid, and children's health insurance program ( chip ). we provide those health care services under contracts with regulatory entities in the areas in which we operate. for the year ended december 31, 2013, our medicaid operations in florida, georgia and kentucky each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes. these customers accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. our florida medicaid contracts expire in august 2015, however we currently anticipate that these will be terminated early in connection with the implementation of the managed medical assistance program (the "mma program ), which replaces the prior medicaid program. our staywell health plan will participate in eight out of the state's 11 regions in the mma program. we expect that starting in the second quarter of 2014, two to three regions will be launched per month, and all regions should be launched by october 2014. our medicaid contracts with other states are generally intended to run for one to three years and in some cases may be extended for additional years if the state or other sponsoring agency elects to do so. our current state contracts are set to expire or renew between february 2014 and december 2015. when our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care plans. there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. if any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed, renewed on less favorable terms, or not renewed on a timely basis, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected. state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs due to difficult macroeconomic conditions and increases in the medicaid eligible population. we anticipate this will require government agencies with which we contract to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. if there is a significant delay in our 36 table of contents receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our care and service delivery model is designed to optimize our use of our personnel as an alternative to third parties based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success. as a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management and behavioral health services for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. we have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. if a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct inaccurate or incomplete encounter data and have been and could be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, in part, to set premium rates. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. there also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. we have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. as states increase their reliance on encounter data these difficulties could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. we may be unable to offset the reductions in premium revenue of our ma and our pdp plans due to sequestration and the effect on our results of operations may be material. pursuant to the sequestration provisions of the budget control act of 2011, approximately $1.2 trillion in domestic and defense spending reductions began in march 2013. a 2% rate reduction to the medicare program began on april 1, 2013, which decreased our premium revenue for our ma and pdp segments. the continuing appropriations act of 2014 continued these spending reductions and extended sequestration on the medicare program for an additional two years through 2023. we may be unable to offset this reduction in premium revenue, and the effect on our results of operations may be material. 37 table of contents we encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. we operate in, and may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have chosen not to participate in the health insurance exchange products during 2014 and we may not participate in 2015. as a result, individuals who select an exchange product, and subsequently become eligible for a medicaid plan that we offer, may be less likely to select or be assigned to us. regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. regulators may prefer companies that operate in multiple lines of business when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, in which we may not operate. we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. we may not be able to develop innovative products and services, which are attractive to members. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully retain or acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers under acceptable contract terms to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. we may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry and other businesses. if we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. in particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. in addition, we have in the past and may in the future modify our senior management structure, which could impact our retention of employees and management. our ma plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. the independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may also recommend and/or market health care benefits products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth, and control medical cost trends, and/or our pricing flexibility, may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. this model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms, and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. we reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting 38 table of contents adjustments are made to premium revenue. in addition, revisions to the risk-adjustment models have reduced, and will continue to reduce, our premium revenue. as a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required. government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. our florida and arizona ma plans have been selected by cms for audits of the 2011 contract year and we anticipate that cms will conduct audits of other contracts and contract years on an on-going basis. an audit may result in the refund of premiums to cms. it is likely that a payment adjustment could occur as a result of these audits, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. recent changes in our senior management, workforce and operations may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business, results of operations, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. we have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management, workforce and operations. in september and october 2013, we terminated, without cause, the employment of alec cunningham, the chief executive officer, walter cooper, the chief administrative officer, and dan paquin, president national health plans. on october 31, 2013, david gallitano, our chairman of the board, was named our chief executive officer on an interim basis. we have retained an executive search firm to identify a new chief executive officer, the process for which may take up to a total of twelve months. in february 2014, rose hauser joined us as our chief information officer. in january 2014, kenneth burdick joined us as our president, national health plans. michael polen was recently promoted to a newly created position of senior vice president, operations. additionally, blair todt, former senior vice president and chief compliance officer, recently assumed the newly created position of senior vice president, chief strategy and development officer, while cyndi baily, former vice president, assistant general counsel, assumed mr. todt's former position of senior vice president and chief compliance officer. we eliminated approximately 280 positions and aligned complementary functions to reduce cost and optimize performance in october 2013. these changes in our senior management, workforce and operations may be disruptive to our business and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and the market price of our common stock. additionally, we may not be able to fully realize the expected cost savings or improved operational efficiency. we derive a significant portion of our medicare revenue from our pdp operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. the results of our bids could materially reduce our revenue and profits. a significant portion of our pdp membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in cms-designated regions where our pdp premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. in general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding pdp membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. if our future part d premium bids are not below the cms benchmarks, we risk losing pdp members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional pdp members auto-assigned to us, which would materially reduce our revenue and profits. our 2014 medicare pdp bids were below the benchmarks in 30 of the 33 cms regions for which we submitted bids, which resulted from the realignment of our benefit designs and cost structure, and we may not be as successful in our bids in future years. we are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders and creditors. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, 39 table of contents what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. the following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face: claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations; claims relating to sales practices; claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments; claims relating to claims payments and procedures; claims relating to provider marketing; claims by providers for network termination or exclusion; anti-kickback claims; medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers' malpractice or negligence; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts; allegations of discrimination; allegations of breaches of duties; claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings; allegations of agent misconduct; claims related to deceptive trade practices; and claims relating to audits and contract performance. as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit, investigation or result from litigation could result in: loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; reduction or limitation of our membership; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future acquisitions or service or geographic expansion; suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service; and an event of default under our debt agreements. in particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent. some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions. for example, in october 2008, the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ) informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. with respect to these actions, we reached a settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the united states attorney's office for 40 table of contents the middle district of florida, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut. however, other qui tam actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other qui tam actions may be filed against us in the future. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with these audits, see risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows above. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums that we believe to be erroneous, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if we are unable to access sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions due to our existing credit agreement, our senior notes due 2020 (the notes ), restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries, or higher statutory capital levels, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business strategy has been defined by three primary initiatives, one of which includes our ability to enter new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines. we may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities. our ability to enter new markets may be hindered in situations where financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. financing may only be available to us with unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require to enter new markets, making such efforts unfeasible. our credit agreement and notes have restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our senior credit facilities is variable. our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. 41 table of contents our credit agreement and notes contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. if we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. in addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. our licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. one or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding. in addition, our credit agreement provides us with up to $300.0 million of borrowing ability thereunder. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our and our subsidiaries' financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities, or to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the credit agreement. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the notes and the credit agreement, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the notes may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. if we commit a material breach of our corporate integrity agreement, we may be excluded from certain programs, resulting in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on april 26, 2011, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (the corporate integrity agreement ) with the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services ( oig-hhs ). the corporate integrity agreement has a term of five years and concludes the previously disclosed matters relating to us under review by oig-hhs. the corporate integrity agreement requires us to maintain various ethics and compliance programs that are designed to help ensure our ongoing compliance with federal health care program requirements. the terms of the corporate integrity agreement include certain organizational structure requirements, internal monitoring requirements, compliance training, screening 42 table of contents processes for new employees, who we call associates, requirements for reporting to oig-hhs, and the engagement of an independent review organization to review and prepare written reports regarding, among other things, our reporting practices and bid submissions to federal health care programs. if we fail to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement, we may be required to pay certain monetary penalties. furthermore, if we commit a material breach of the corporate integrity agreement, oig-hhs may exclude us from participating in federal health care programs. any such exclusion would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses and potentially have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. in connection with some of these pending matters, including the recent criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. we have exhausted our insurance for the expenses associated with the criminal trial of our former executive officers and associates, and the related government investigations that commenced in 2007, and expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be further reimbursed. we currently maintain insurance in the amount of $125.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. we are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could impact our investment portfolio. our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of our assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could impact the value or liquidity of our investment portfolio and adversely impact interest income. as a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. risks related to ownership of our stock we are subject to laws, government regulations and agreements that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states "control" is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. in addition, in our settlement with the civil division, we agreed to pay $35.0 million in the event that we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control on or before april 30, 2015, provided the transaction exceeds certain thresholds. our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. from time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: variations in our operating results; changes in the market's expectations about our future operating results; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the health care industry generally; 43 table of contents operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; news reports relating to trends in our markets; changes or proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting our business; acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; changes in our senior management; and sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur. we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. we have an effective shelf registration statement on form s-3 filed with the sec under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. the registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the sec's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use form s-3. additional equity financing will be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. these sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. risks related to information technology if we are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. there can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our information systems, applications and critical business functions. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. our plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our costs to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information could be significant, and any disruptions or security breaches in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or 44 table of contents breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations, or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. failure to keep our computer networks, information technology systems, computers and programs and our members' and customers' sensitive information secure from attack, damage or unauthorized access, whether as a result of our action or inaction or that of one of our business associates or other vendors, could adversely affect our reputation, membership and revenues and also expose us to mandatory disclosure to the media, contract termination, litigation (including class action litigation), and other enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, operating results or financial condition. our measures to prevent security breaches may not be successful. as we expand our business, including through acquisitions and organic growth, increase the amount of information we make available to members and consumers on mobile devices and expand our use of social media, our exposure to these data security and related cybersecurity risks, including the risk of undetected attacks, damage or unauthorized access, increases, and the cost of attempting to protect against these risks also increases. the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( arra ), modified certain provisions of the health insurance portability and accountability act ( hipaa ) by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions to business associates, mandating new regulations around electronic health records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, and increasing penalties for violations. civil penalties for hipaa violations by covered entities are up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. hhs is required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties became mandatory in february 2011, are statutorily required. in addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of hipaa privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. initially monies collected will be transferred to a division of hhs for further enforcement and, within three years, a methodology will be adopted for distributing a percentage of those monies to affected individuals to fund enforcement and provide incentive for individuals to report violations. in addition, the hitech act requires us to notify affected individuals, hhs, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. the hitech act also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. while provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under the hitech act, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state medicaid agencies. we are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. on january 25, 2013, hhs, as required by the hitech act, issued the final omnibus rules that provide final modifications to hipaa rules to implement the hitech act. the various requirements of the hitech act have different compliance dates, some of which have passed and some of which will occur in the future. we will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under hipaa as modified by the hitech act continue to become effective and more guidance becomes available from hhs and other federal agencies. the evolving privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, associate education and resources and there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. given hipaa's complexity and the evolving regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the hipaa requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under the hitech act and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new icd-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. hhs has released rules pursuant to hipaa which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. hhs also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. by 45 table of contents october 1, 2014, the federal government will require that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions. these new standardized code sets, known as icd-10, will require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. while use of the icd-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, we believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. however, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. investment return market risk as of december 31, 2013 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.48 billion , investments classified as current assets of $314.7 million , long-term investments of $80.4 million and restricted investments on deposit for licensure of $82.5 million . the short-term investments classified as current assets consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and twelve months and longer term bonds with floating interest rates that are considered available for sale. restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their contractual maturity dates, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2013 , the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $3.5 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2013 would increase the fair value of our investments by approximately $4.0 million.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could become unprofitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to estimate and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive (the medical benefits ratio or mbr ) can create significant changes in our financial results. many aspects of the managed care business are not predictable, and estimating medical benefits expense is a continuous process, which depends on the information available to us and our ability to utilize such information. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include: the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion (including geographic expansion), whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected; an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of the introduction of new products or technologies, inflation or otherwise; the performance of our pharmaceutical benefit manager in managing our pharmaceutical costs; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services; contractual provisions related to continuity of care for new members; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and/or other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, major epidemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; challenges in implementing medical expense cost control initiatives, especially during the first year of a new medicaid program; and new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations and/or practices. the factors and assumptions that are used to develop our estimates of costs, including medical benefits expense, inherently are subject to greater variability when there is more limited experience or information available to us, such as when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program. in many cases, the degree of our ability to accurately estimate medical benefits expense may not be known until we have sufficient experience and more complete information. for example, levels of plan utilization and members' use of medical services, provider claims submissions, our payment processes and other factors can result in identifiable patterns emerging only following the passage of a significant period of time after the occurrence of the underlying causes of deviations from our assumptions. if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits would likely be reduced or we may not remain profitable, which would also affect our liquidity, cash flows and our ability to comply with statutory requirements. most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, depending on the type of member in our plans. these payments are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to five years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by states and the federal government. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs using actuarial methods based on historical data. actual experience, however, could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. for example, several new, extremely high cost hepatitis c drugs were approved in 2014. in addition, in the new florida mma program, our claims experience has been running significantly higher than we originally estimated. because the new florida mma program has required its participating plans to utilize the state's drug formulary, it is more 31 table of contents difficult for us to manage the pharmaceutical costs. in addition, we experienced unfavorable development of prior year reserve amounts in three of the four quarters in 2013, and in the first and second quarters of 2014, particularly in our medicaid and medicare health plans segments. our medical benefits expense may exceed our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions and we may be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our ma and pdp plans, as well as certain of our medicaid plans, are subject to a minimum medical loss ratio ( mlr ), which requires health plans to spend not less than a certain percentage of premiums on medical benefits. if a minimum mlr is not met, then we could be required to refund premiums back to the state or cms, as applicable. in addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for a supplemental security income ( ssi ) member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes; there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. some provider contracts are directly tied to state medicaid or medicare fee schedules, which the state or cms, respectively, may increase without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. we have experienced similar types of adjustments in other states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively impacted. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage expenses. in some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. the uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. our pharmacy benefit manager may not perform at the level of our expectations, resulting in additional pharmacy costs or administrative costs, which would affect the profitability of our medicaid health plans segment, our medicare pdp segment and our ma plans that contain a prescription drug benefit, and could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our pharmacy benefit manager may not perform at the level of our expectations, resulting in additional pharmacy costs or administrative costs, which would reduce the profitability of our medicaid health plans segment, our medicare pdp segment and the ma plans that also contain a prescription drug benefit. further, because our 2015 ma and pdp bids do not account for such additional costs, and we would not be reimbursed for additional pharmacy costs that are the responsibility of cms until the fourth quarter of 2016, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. we rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our care and service delivery model is designed to optimize our use of our personnel as an alternative to third parties based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success. as a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. we have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. if a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of 32 table of contents operations. in addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, transitioning services to another vendor, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. for example, we intend to change pharmacy benefit managers in 2016, which may create operational challenges and transition and transitory costs as a new vendor is implemented. in addition, in november 2014, we outsourced our mail order pharmacy. further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. failure to maintain satisfactory quality scores could negatively impact our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations. quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), to pay bonuses to medicare advantage ( ma ) plans that enable high scoring plans to offer enhanced member health benefits which are attractive to members. certain provisions in the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the aca ) tie ma premiums to the achievement of star ratings. beginning in 2015, only ma plans that have a 4.0 or higher overall quality score, or star rating , (out of five) will be eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. plans that receive quality bonuses may have a competitive advantage in the medicare market, as they may be able to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. none of our plans achieved a 4.0 star rating in 2014, so we will not receive these quality bonuses in 2015, and we may not be able to improve our star ratings, to receive these quality bonuses in the future. in addition, plans with any star ratings below 3.0 for three consecutive years risk contract termination. in 2014, our ma plans in louisiana and the ma plans of windsor health group, inc. ("windsor") we acquired in january 2014, representing approximately 47,000 members as of january 1, 2015, each received at least one star rating of 2.5 for at least the third consecutive year. if these star ratings do not equal or exceed 3.0 by the 2015 star rating release date, these plans may be terminated by cms as early as plan year 2016. we serve a larger percentage of d-snp members than our competitors, and this population is more challenging to serve. cms's quality measurement methodology does not account for population differences between plans, and therefore, we may be unable to achieve a four star rating for some of our plans. furthermore, plans deemed low performing that participate in state medicare-medicaid dual-eligible demonstration programs are ineligible for passive enrollment, which is likely to result in lower market share in those programs. in certain state medicaid programs, plans that do not meet applicable quality measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, may not be able to earn quality bonuses, may be required to pay penalties, or may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. in addition, if the state determines that a health plan has failed to meet the contractual requirements for quality measures, these contracts may be subject to termination, or other remedies, such as liquidated damages, at the discretion of the state. we are unable to predict what actions a state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. in addition, lower quality scores compared to our competitors may adversely impact our ability to attract members and obtain regulatory approval for acquisitions or expansions. as a result, lower quality scores compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations. difficulties in successfully estimating and managing growth may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our membership has grown substantially in the last three years due to acquisitions, geographic expansions and organic growth. this rapid growth has strained our operations, medical management and information technology resources. we may not be successful in improving our infrastructure to support this growth, and delays in infrastructure improvements may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, due to the substantial initial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could adversely impact our short-term profitability and liquidity. as part of our growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations. in 2012, we completed two acquisitions, easy choice health plan, inc. in california and certain assets of 33 table of contents desert canyon community care in arizona, and in the first quarter of 2013, we completed our acquisition of unitedhealth group incorporated's south carolina medicaid plan and aetna, inc.'s missouri medicaid plan. in january 2014, we completed our acquisition of windsor from munich health north america, inc., a part of munich re. through its subsidiaries, windsor serves medicare beneficiaries with medicare advantage, prescription drug plan and medicare supplement products. we are still integrating certain aspects of these acquisitions into our operations. on june 30, 2014, we acquired certain medicaid-related assets of healthfirst health plan of new jersey, inc. ("healthfirst nj"), with the transfer of membership effective as of july 1, 2014. the acquired assets primarily relate to approximately 42,000 healthfirst nj medicaid members who were transferred to our medicaid plan in new jersey, as well as certain provider agreements. as a result, beginning july 1, 2014, we offer medicaid managed care in 10 counties in new jersey. once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. other potential acquirers may have greater financial resources or different profitability criteria than we have. depending on the transaction size, we may not be able to obtain appropriate financing, especially in light of the volatility in the capital markets over the past several years. even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. we may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities. once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating the businesses within our existing operations, due to factors such as: new associates who must become familiar with our operations and corporate culture; acquired provider networks that operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated; existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan; disparate administrative and information technology systems; and difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably. as a result, our acquired businesses may not perform as we anticipated, or in line with our existing businesses. in addition, if the expected future profitability of the acquired business declines, we may need to write down or incur impairment charges of the acquired assets. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2014, we recorded a charge of $18.0 million to reflect the impairment of certain intangible assets associated with the acquisition of easy choice in 2012, and fully impaired the assets we acquired from desert canyon community care in arizona, due to our decision to exit the arizona ma market. in the future, we may incur additional material expenses in connection with the integration and execution of acquisitions, expansions, and other significant transactions. furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity, which may not be successful. these expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. if we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by factors such as: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals to operate; lower quality scores compared to our competitors; participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; cms or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as cms star ratings; competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. in any program start-up, acquisition, expansion, or re-bid, the implementation of the contract as designed may be affected by factors beyond our control. these include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbency, 34 table of contents participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, changes to the program design or implementation timing, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, and noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. as a result, our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively impacted. in addition, when making award determinations and evaluating proposed acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. as a result of the previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, the restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and employees that concluded in the second quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. as a result, continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow. our medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. loss of a material contract, reduced premium rates, or delayed payment of earned premiums may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. our concentration of medicaid operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions, payment delays, loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, epidemics, pandemics, unexpected increases in utilization, advances in medical technology and pharmaceutical therapies, difficulties in managing provider costs, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in these states could therefore have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. we provide managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving benefits under federal assistance programs, including medicare advantage, medicaid, and children's health insurance program ( chip ). we provide those health care services under contracts with regulatory entities in the areas in which we operate. for the year ended december 31, 2014, our medicaid operations in florida, georgia and kentucky each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes. these customers accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. our medicaid contracts are generally intended to run for one to five years and in some cases may be extended for additional years if the state or other sponsoring agency elects to do so. when our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care plans. for example, the last renewal option under our georgia medicaid contract expires in june 2016. on february 9, 2015, the georgia department of community health issued a request for proposals for its medicaid program, under which services would commence on july 1, 2016. we are currently preparing our response. a total of nine companies, including us, have been deemed qualified to bid. the request for proposals indicates up to four companies may be selected to participate. in addition, the state of missouri has issued a request for proposals for its medicaid program for the period between july 1, 2015 and june 30, 2016, with two possible annual renewal periods. we have responded and are currently waiting for the state's contract award decision. there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended or, if renewed or extended, on what terms. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. if any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed or extended, renewed or extended on less favorable terms, or not renewed or extended on a timely basis, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our financial position, results of operations or cash flows may be materially affected. state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs. as a result, government agencies with which we contract may seek funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding for their medicaid programs. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us for these reasons or any other reason, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. we have experienced such rate decreases in the past and may do so in the future. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 35 table of contents a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved state plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from our pdp operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. the results of our bids could materially reduce our cash flow, liquidity, revenue and profits. a significant portion of our pdp membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in cms-designated regions where our pdp premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. in general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding pdp membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. our 2014 medicare pdp bids were below the benchmarks in 30 of the 33 cms regions for which we submitted bids. however, our 2015 pdp bids resulted in one of our basic plans being below the benchmarks in 13 of the 33 cms regions for which we submitted bids and within the de minimis range in nine other regions. this resulted from the realignment of our benefit designs and cost structure. we may not be able to submit bids which are below benchmarks of other plans' bids in future years. our membership has decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 as those pdp members who had been auto assigned to us in regions where our 2015 bids are not below or within the de minimis range have been assigned to other plans. for those regions in which we are within the de minimis range, we will not be eligible to have new members auto-assigned to us, but we will not lose our existing auto-assigned membership. if our future part d premium bids are not below the cms benchmarks, we risk losing pdp members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional pdp members auto-assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenue and profits. in 2014, our segment pdp mbr was higher than our expectation primarily due to higher utilization of branded and specialty drugs by our new members. we may not be successful in improving our segment mbr in the future, which would materially reduce our profits. for additional risks associated with estimating and managing our mbr, see if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could become unprofitable above. because the estimated costs of providing prescription drugs in our 2014 bids were substantially lower than our actual costs of providing prescription drugs, our funds receivable from cms is higher than we anticipated. as a result, our unregulated cash and the net proceeds from a $300.0 million term loan drawn in september 2014 are being used to fund the costs of providing prescription drugs until the funds receivable from cms are actually paid to us, which we expect to occur in the fourth quarter of 2015. until such time, our cash flow and liquidity will be adversely affected, perhaps materially. we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $900.0 million in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding consisting of a $300.0 million term loan and $600.0 million senior notes due 2020 (the "notes"). in addition, our credit agreement provides us with up to an additional $300.0 million of borrowing ability thereunder. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our and our subsidiaries' financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities, or to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes and the credit agreement. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the notes and the credit agreement, or to fund our other liquidity needs. in september 2014, we amended and restated our existing credit agreement to provide for a $300.0 million term loan, which expires in september 2016, to fund our pdp operations due to a receivable from cms that has been accumulating during 2014. the pdp receivable from cms primarily relates to low-income subsidies and catastrophic reinsurance coverage (reinsurance) provided by cms under the medicare pdp program. because our 2014 pdp bids for the estimated costs of providing prescription drugs were substantially lower than our actual costs of providing prescription drugs, our funds receivable from cms is higher than we anticipated. as a result, our unregulated cash and the proceeds from the term loan facility are being used to fund costs of providing prescription drugs until the funds receivable from cms are actually paid to us, which we 36 table of contents expect will occur in the fourth quarter of 2015. in addition, if our costs of providing prescription drugs in 2015 are higher than our estimates included in our 2015 pdp bids, then we could accumulate an additional large receivable from cms. our cash flow and liquidity could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the notes may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. if we are unable to pay our indebtedness on time, it could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness and materially adversely affect us. if we commit a material breach of our corporate integrity agreement, we may be excluded from certain programs, resulting in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on april 26, 2011, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (the corporate integrity agreement ) with the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services ( oig-hhs ). the corporate integrity agreement has a term of five years and concludes the previously disclosed matters relating to us under review by oig-hhs. the corporate integrity agreement requires us to maintain various ethics and compliance programs that are designed to help ensure our ongoing compliance with federal health care program requirements. the terms of the corporate integrity agreement include certain organizational structure requirements, internal monitoring requirements, compliance training, screening processes for new employees, who we call associates, requirements for reporting to oig-hhs, and the engagement of an independent review organization to review and prepare written reports regarding, among other things, our reporting practices and bid submissions to federal health care programs. if we fail to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement, we may be required to pay certain monetary penalties. furthermore, if we commit a material breach of the corporate integrity agreement, oig-hhs will exclude us from participating in federal health care programs. any such exclusion would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses and potentially have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the requirements of the aca, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we believe the aca will continue to bring about significant changes to the american health care system. these measures are intended to expand the number of united states residents covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery, and payment changes to the current health care system. the costs of implementing the aca will be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. on june 28, 2012, the u.s. supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate contained in the aca and modified the medicaid expansion provisions to make the expansion optional for states. some states have decided not to participate in the medicaid expansion, and more states may choose not to participate in the future. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to fully implement the aca, may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or could seek to repeal the law altogether. in 2015, the u. s. supreme court is scheduled to consider whether premium subsidies can be used in a federally facilitated exchange. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the aca could change the way we do business, potentially impacting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. regulations and policies related to the implementation of the aca, the budget control act of 2011, and the continuing appropriations act of 2014, as well as future legislative changes, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows by: restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; lowering our medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; 37 table of contents encouraging states to contract with organizations that are not subject to the annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment imposed by the aca (the "aca industry fee") for their medicaid programs; and encouraging states to integrate medicare and medicaid using a limited number of health plans or a fee for service model. in addition, the response of other companies to these policy, regulatory and legislative changes and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful impact in the health care markets. the aca includes a number of changes that could impact the way ma plans will operate, such as: reduced medicare premium rates . on april 7, 2014, cms revised their proposed 2015 rates, which we estimate will result in a rate decrease in the low single digit percentage from our 2014 rates. cms star ratings . certain provisions in the aca tie ma premiums to the achievement of star ratings. beginning in 2015, ma plans with an overall star rating of four or more stars will be eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. plans that receive quality bonuses may have a competitive advantage in the medicare market, as they may be able to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. also, beginning with open enrollment for the 2014 plan year, part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years have been excluded from mention in the cms medicare and you handbook, denoted as low performing plans on the cms website, and excluded from on-line enrollment through the medicare plan finder website. these actions may adversely impact these plans' ability to maintain or increase membership. cms could exercise its authority and terminate the ma and pdp contracts for plans rated below three stars for three consecutive years for the plan year 2015. however, cms could still exercise its authority and terminate those plans for the plan year 2016. we serve a larger percentage of d-snp members than our competitors, and this population is more challenging to serve. cms's quality measurement methodology does not account for population differences between plans, and therefore, we may be unable to achieve a four star rating for some or all of our plans. our ma plans in louisiana and our windsor ma plans, representing approximately 47,000 members as of january 1, 2015, could be terminated effective december 31, 2015 if their part c and part d star ratings are not at least three stars for the plan year 2016. while we are continuing efforts to improve our star ratings and other quality measures, there is no guarantee that we will be able to maintain or improve our star ratings. minimum mlrs . beginning in 2014, the aca requires the establishment of a mlr for ma plans and part d plans, requiring them to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical benefits. the rules implementing the minimum mlr impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum mlr, including requirements to refund to cms shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's ma contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum mlr. mlr is determined by adding a plan's spending for clinical services, prescription drugs and other direct patient benefits, plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). under the aca, over a 10-year period beginning in 2010, the coverage gap (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications) under part d has been gradually closing, with beneficiaries retaining a 25% co-pay in 2020. while this change will ultimately result in increased insurance coverage for beneficiaries, such improved benefits could result in changes in member behavior with respect to drug utilization. such actions could impact the cost structure of our pdps. the aca imposed certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as an annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment (the "aca industry fee") on health insurers which began in 2014. the total aca industry fee levied on the health insurance industry was $8 billion in 2014 and will be $11.3 billion in 2015, with increasing annual amounts thereafter, and growing to $14.3 billion by 2018. after 2018, the industry fee increases according to an index based on net premium growth. the assessment is being levied on certain health insurers that provide insurance in the assessment year, and is allocated to health insurers based on each health insurer's share of net premiums for all u.s health insurers in the year preceding the assessment. the aca industry fee is not deductible for income tax purposes, which has significantly increased our effective income tax rate. we incurred $137.7 million of such fees in 2014 and currently estimate that we will incur between $230 and $235 million in such fees in 2015, due to the increase in the total fee to be levied on the industry and the expected increase in our share of total 2014 industry premiums. however, the 2015 final fee amount will not be determined until august 2015. we have received amendments, written agreements or other documentation from all our medicaid state customers, that commit them to reimburse us for the portion of the aca industry fee 38 table of contents on our medicaid plans, including its non-deductibility for income tax purposes for 2014. consequently, we recognized $124.6 million of reimbursement for the aca industry fee as premium revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014. we have also obtained similar commitments from our medicaid customers for 2015. cms does not directly reimburse us for the impact of the aca industry fee related to ma and pdp premiums. the health reforms in the aca allow, but do not require, states to expand eligibility for medicaid programs. as a result, the effects of any potential future expansions and future federal financing are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net impact of the aca will be positive or negative for our medicaid business. future changes in health care law present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. future changes in, or interpretations to, existing health care laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to change our operating structure; requiring significant additional reporting and technological capabilities; imposing additional fees and taxes, which cannot be offset by increased premium revenue; increasing mandated benefits; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; and requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim (a claim for which no additional information is needed), payment methodologies and timing, utilization of mail order pharmacy, administrative simplification, mandatory network inclusion of certain providers, mandated increases in provider reimbursement rates, physician collective bargaining rights, centralized credentialing and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. the aca ends funding for chip as of september 30, 2015 and the special needs program has only been authorized through december 31, 2016. if these programs are not funded, renewed or extended, it could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, cash flow, membership and profitability. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. our contracts require the submission of complete and correct encounter data. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, in part, to set premium rates. we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct inaccurate or incomplete encounter data and have been and could be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. there also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. we have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. as states increase their reliance on encounter data, these difficulties could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. we encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. 39 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. we operate in, and may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively impact our ability to maintain or acquire profitable businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we did not to participate in the health insurance exchange products during 2014 and we are only participating in the exchanges in kentucky and new york in 2015. as a result, individuals who select an exchange product in our other states, and subsequently become eligible for a medicaid plan that we offer, may be less likely to select or be assigned to us. regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. regulators may prefer companies that operate in lines of business in which we do not operate when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, which may cause our bid or renewal to be unsuccessful. we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. we may not be able to develop innovative products and services that are attractive to members. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully retain or acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers under acceptable contract terms to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. we may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry. if we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. in particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. in addition, we have in the past and may in the future modify our senior management structure, which could impact our retention of employees and management. our ma plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. the independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may also recommend and/or market health care benefits products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth, and control medical cost trends and/or our pricing flexibility, may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. this model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms, and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. we reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to premium revenue. in addition, revisions to the risk-adjustment models have reduced, and may continue to reduce, our premium revenue. 40 table of contents as a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required. government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. our florida and arizona ma plans have been selected by cms for audits of the 2011 contract year and we anticipate that cms will conduct audits of other contracts and contract years on an on-going basis. an audit may result in the refund of premiums to cms. it is likely that a payment adjustment could occur as a result of these audits, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. recent changes in our senior management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business, results of operations, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. we have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management. effective january 1, 2015, kenneth burdick, previously our president and chief operating officer, was promoted to chief executive officer, replacing david gallitano, our interim chief executive officer. in december 2014, blair todt, previously our senior vice president, chief strategy and development officer, assumed the newly created role of senior vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary replacing lisa iglesias and her role as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. in november 2014, andrew asher replaced thomas tran as our chief financial officer. in april 2014, michael yount, our former chief privacy officer, replaced cyndi baily as our senior vice president and chief compliance officer. in february 2014, rose hauser joined us as our chief information officer. these changes in our senior management may be disruptive to our business and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. any such disruption or uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and the market price of our common stock. we are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any actual or alleged violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders and creditors. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any actual or alleged violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. the following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face: claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations; claims relating to sales practices; claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments; claims relating to claims payments and procedures; claims relating to provider marketing; claims by providers for network termination or exclusion; anti-kickback claims; medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers' malpractice or negligence; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts or defamation claims; allegations of discrimination; 41 table of contents allegations of breaches of duties; claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings and other statements; allegations of agent misconduct; claims related to deceptive trade practices; and claims relating to audits and contract performance. as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit, investigation or result from litigation could result in: loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; reduction or limitation of our membership; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future acquisitions or service or geographic expansion; suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service; and an event of default under our debt agreements. in particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent. some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. qui tam actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions. for example, in october 2008, the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ) informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four qui tam complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed a qui tam action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. with respect to these actions, we reached a settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut. however, other qui tam actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other qui tam actions may be filed against us in the future. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with these audits, see risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows above. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. 42 table of contents premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program, have secondary insurance or are eligible for a different premium category, or a different program. our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums that we believe to be erroneous, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. if we are unable to access sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions under our credit agreement, the notes, restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries, or higher levels of required statutory capital, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business strategy has been defined by four long-term business priorities, one of which includes our ability to enter new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines. we may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities. our ability to enter new markets may be hindered in situations where financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. financing may only be available to us with unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require to enter new markets, making such efforts unfeasible. our credit agreement and notes have restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our credit agreement is variable. our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our credit agreement and notes also contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. if we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. in addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. our licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. one or more of these states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. 43 table of contents our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital due to the adoption of risk-based capital requirements by other states in which we operate. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. in connection with some pending matters, including the recent criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. we have exhausted our insurance for the expenses associated with the criminal trial of our former executive officers and associates, and the related government investigations that commenced in 2007, and further expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be reimbursed. we currently maintain insurance in the amount of $125.0 million which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. we are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could impact our investment portfolio. our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of our assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could impact the value or liquidity, of our investment portfolio and adversely impact interest income. as a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. risks related to ownership of our stock we are subject to laws, government regulations and agreements that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states "control" is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of another entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. in addition, in our settlement with the civil division, we agreed to pay $35.0 million in the event that we are acquired or otherwise experience a change in control on or before april 30, 2015, provided the transaction meets certain criteria specified in the settlement agreement. our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. from time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: 44 table of contents variations in our operating results; changes in our or the market's expectations about our future operating results; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the health care industry generally; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; news reports relating to trends in our markets; changes or proposed changes in the laws, regulations and policies affecting our business; acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; changes in our senior management; sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur; and the risks described in risks related to our business above. we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. we have an effective shelf registration statement on form s-3 filed with the sec under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. the registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the sec's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use form s-3. debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. these sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. risks related to information technology if we are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales and membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. there can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations, complying with contractual data requirements and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, difficulty in improving quality, increases in administrative expenses and write-offs of our expenditures in unsuccessful capital investments. additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our information systems, applications and critical business functions. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. our plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on business and our results of operations. 45 table of contents our costs to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information could be significant, and any disruptions or security breaches in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, operating results or financial condition. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. failure to keep our computer networks, information technology systems, computers and programs and our members' and customers' sensitive information secure from attack, damage or unauthorized access, whether as a result of our action or inaction or that of one of our business associates or other vendors, could adversely affect our reputation, membership and revenues and also expose us to mandatory disclosure to the media, contract termination, litigation (including class action litigation), and other enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, operating results or financial condition. our measures to prevent security breaches may not be successful. as we expand our business, including through acquisitions and organic growth, increase the amount of information we make available to members and consumers on mobile devices and expand our use of social media, our exposure to these data security and related cybersecurity risks, including the risk of undetected attacks, damage or unauthorized access, increases, and the cost of attempting to protect against these risks also increases. the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( arra ), modified certain provisions of the health insurance portability and accountability act ( hipaa ) by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions to business associates, mandating new regulations around electronic health records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, and increasing penalties for violations. civil penalties for hipaa violations by covered entities are up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. hhs is required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties became mandatory in february 2011, are statutorily required. in addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of hipaa privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. in addition, the hitech act requires us to notify affected individuals, hhs, and in some cases the media when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. the hitech act also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. while provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under the hitech act, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state medicaid agencies. we are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. on january 25, 2013, hhs, as required by the hitech act, issued the final omnibus rules that provide final modifications to hipaa rules to implement the hitech act. the various requirements of the hitech act have different compliance dates, some of which have passed and some of which will occur in the future. we will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under hipaa as modified by the hitech act continue to become effective and more guidance becomes available from hhs and other federal agencies. the evolving privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, associate education and resources and there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. given hipaa's complexity and the evolving regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the hipaa requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under the hitech act and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new icd-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. 46 table of contents hhs has released rules pursuant to hipaa which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. hhs also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. by october 1, 2015, the federal government will require that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions. these new standardized code sets, known as icd-10, has required and will continue to require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. while use of the icd-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and we do not expect it to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. however, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. investment return market risk as of december 31, 2014 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.3 billion , investments classified as current assets of $172.8 million , long-term investments of $257.3 million and restricted investments on deposit for licensure of $150.3 million . the short-term investments classified as current assets consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and twelve months and longer term bonds with floating interest rates that are considered available for sale. restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their contractual maturity dates, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2014 , the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $3.7 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2014 would increase the fair value of our investments by approximately $4.1 million.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could become unprofitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to estimate and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive (the medical benefits ratio or mbr ) can create significant changes in our financial results. many aspects of the managed care business are not predictable, and estimating medical benefits expense is a continuous process, which depends on the information available to us and our ability to utilize such information. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include, but are not limited to: the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion (including geographic expansion), whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected; an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of the introduction of new products or technologies, inflation or otherwise; the performance of our pharmaceutical benefit manager in managing our pharmaceutical costs; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services; contractual provisions related to continuity of care for new members; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and/or other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; challenges in implementing medical expense cost control initiatives, especially during the first year of a new medicaid program; new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations, public policy and/or practices; emerging changes in the economy; and changes in members' behavior and health care utilization patterns and provider billing practices (including those driven by the implementation of icd-10, effective october 1, 2015) and numerous other factors that are or may be beyond our control. the factors and assumptions that are used to develop our estimates of costs, including medical benefits expense, inherently are subject to greater variability when there is more limited experience or information available to us, or the state or federal client, such as when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program. in many cases, the degree of our ability to accurately estimate medical benefits expense may not be known until we have sufficient experience and more complete information. for example, levels of plan utilization and members' use of medical services, provider claims submissions, our payment processes and other factors can result in identifiable patterns emerging only following the passage of a significant period of time after the occurrence of the underlying causes of deviations from our assumptions. if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits would likely be reduced or we may not remain profitable, which would also affect our liquidity, cash flows and our ability to comply with statutory requirements. most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, depending on the type of member in our plans. these payments, from the states, are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period, which is generally one to three years, to provide or arrange for the provision of health care services as established by the states and the federal government. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs using actuarially sound methods based on historical 31 table of contents data, factors and assumptions. when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program, the factors and assumptions used to develop premiums and premium rates are subject to greater variability as there is limited experience or information available to us and the state. actual experience could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. for example, in 2014 and 2015, several new, extremely high cost drugs were approved by the federal drug administration. in our florida mma program, our claims experience ran significantly higher in the first months of implementation than we had originally estimated. because the florida mma program requires its participating plans to utilize the state's drug formulary, it is more difficult for us to manage the pharmaceutical costs. in addition, we experienced unfavorable development of prior year reserve amounts in three of the four quarters in 2013, and in the first and second quarters of 2014, particularly in our medicaid and medicare health plans segments. our medical benefits expense may exceed our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions and we may be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. assumptions and estimates are utilized in establishing premium deficiency reserves. if our assumptions are inaccurate, our reserves may be inadequate to pay medical costs, we may be required to increase our premium deficiency reserve and there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our ma and pdp plans, as well as certain of our medicaid plans, are subject to a minimum medical loss ratio ( mlr ), which requires health plans to spend not less than a certain percentage of premiums on medical benefits. if a minimum mlr is not met, then we could be required to refund a portion of our premiums back to the state or cms, as applicable. in addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for a supplemental security income ( ssi ) member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes; there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. some provider contracts are directly tied to state medicaid or medicare fee schedules, which the state or cms, respectively, may increase without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. we have experienced similar types of adjustments in states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively affected. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage medical benefits expenses. in some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. the uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. we rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we have determined, based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success, that it is more efficient to use third parties instead of our personnel for certain functions. as a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing and certain aspects of utilization management. we have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. if a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts could subject us to fines or 32 table of contents other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, transitioning services to another vendor, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. for example, we have a new pharmacy benefit manager as of january 1, 2016, which has created operational challenges during the transition and we will incur transitory costs that we would not have otherwise incurred as a result of the implementation. in addition, in november 2014, we outsourced our mail order pharmacy. further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. failure to maintain satisfactory quality scores could negatively affect our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations. quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), to pay bonuses to medicare advantage ( ma ) plans that enable high scoring plans to offer enhanced health benefits which are attractive to members. certain provisions in the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the aca ) provide additional medicare revenue related to the achievement of higher star ratings that can be used to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. in addition, plans with star ratings of 4.0 or higher are eligible for year-round open enrollment, whereas plans with lower star ratings have more restrictions on enrollment criteria and timing. as a result, plans that achieve higher star ratings may have a competitive advantage in the medicare market over plans with lower star ratings. none of our plans achieved a 4.0 star rating in 2015, so we receive less quality-related additional revenue and have more restrictions on benefit design, enrollment criteria and timing than our competitors with higher star ratings. we may not be able to improve our star ratings to receive additional quality-related revenue, more flexibility in our benefit design, or to market our products more freely in the future. this could have a material adverse effect on the profitability and membership of our medicare plans. part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are denoted as "low performing" plans on the cms website and in the cms "medicare and you" handbook. furthermore, plans deemed low performing that participate in state medicare-medicaid dual-eligible demonstration programs are ineligible for passive enrollment, which is likely to result in lower market share in those programs. in addition, plans with any star ratings below 3.0 for three consecutive years risk contract termination. two of our ma contracts have been denoted as "low performing" plans by cms: our ma contract serving arkansas, mississippi, tennessee and south carolina and our ma contract serving louisiana. our ma contract serving arkansas, mississippi, tennessee and south carolina is also subject to termination by cms for the plan year 2017. our efforts to retain the membership for these plans by consolidating these contracts into other, better-performing contracts held by us may not be successful. in addition, there is no assurance that star ratings of 3.0 can be attained or maintained for any of these plans, and they could, in the future, be subject to termination. cms's current quality measurement methodology does not appropriately account for socio-economic determinants of health. because we have a greater percentage of lower-income members than average, we may be unable to achieve a 4.0 star rating for some or all of our plans without a legislative or regulatory adjustment to the quality measurement methodology. though various regulatory and legislative solutions have been proposed, we continue to work with our legislative and regulatory partners to ensure this issue is adequately addressed. however, our efforts may not be successful, and we could continue to have plans with star ratings lower than our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our membership and profitability of our ma and pdp lines of business. in certain state medicaid programs, plans that do not meet applicable quality measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, may not be able to earn quality bonuses, may be required to pay penalties, or may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. in addition, if the state determines that a health plan has failed to meet the contractual requirements for quality measures, these contracts may be subject to termination, or other remedies, such as liquidated damages, at the discretion of the state. we are unable to predict what actions a state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. in addition, lower quality scores compared to our competitors may adversely affect our ability to attract members and obtain regulatory approval for acquisitions or expansions or succeed in competitive bidding situations. as a result, lower quality 33 table of contents scores compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, expansions, divestitures or other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our membership has grown substantially in the last three years due to acquisitions, geographic expansions and organic growth. we may not be successful in enhancing our infrastructure to support this continued growth, and delays in infrastructure improvements may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in addition, due to the substantial initial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. as part of our growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations. in 2013, we completed our acquisition of unitedhealth group incorporated's south carolina medicaid plan and aetna, inc.'s missouri medicaid plan. in 2014, we completed our acquisition of certain medicaid-related assets of healthfirst health plan of new jersey, inc. and windsor from munich health north america, inc., a part of munich re. through its subsidiaries, at the time of acquisition, windsor served medicare beneficiaries with medicare advantage, prescription drug plan and medicare supplement products. once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. depending on the transaction size, we may not be able to obtain appropriate financing, especially in light of the volatility in the capital markets over the past several years. we may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities. once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating the businesses within our existing operations, due to factors such as: new associates who must become familiar with our operations and company culture; acquired provider networks that operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated; existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan; disparate administrative and information technology systems; and difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably. as a result, our acquired businesses may not perform as we anticipated, or in line with our existing businesses. in addition, if the expected future profitability of the acquired business declines, we may need to write down or incur impairment charges of the acquired assets. for example, during the year ended december 31, 2014, we recorded a charge of $18.0 million to reflect the impairment of certain intangible assets associated with our 2012 acquisitions. in the future, we may incur additional material expenses in connection with the integration and execution of acquisitions, expansions, and other significant transactions. furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity that is not successful. for example, in october 2015, we signed a contract with the iowa department of human services to serve iowa's medicaid managed care program, effective january 1, 2016. in december 2015, cms delayed the implementation of iowa's medicaid managed care program until march 1, 2016. additionally, in december 2015, iowa's department of administrative services ruled to exclude the company from participating in iowa's medicaid managed care program, which the company disputes and is currently appealing. accordingly, in 2015, the company's selling, general and administrative ("sg&amp;a") expenses include non-recurring expenses of $11.9 million related to the readiness costs, certain wind-down costs of wellcare's iowa operations and certain legal costs incurred during the fourth quarter of 2015. the company expects to continue incurring certain of these expenses in 2016, which will adversely affect our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. if we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by factors such as: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals to operate; lower quality scores compared to our competitors; 34 table of contents participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; cms or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as cms star ratings; competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. in any program start-up, acquisition, expansion, or re-bid, the implementation of the contract as designed may be affected by factors beyond our control. these include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbency, participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, changes to the program design or implementation timing, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, and noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. as a result, our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively affected. in addition, when making award determinations and evaluating proposed acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. as a result of the previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, the restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and employees that concluded in the second quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. in addition, the iowa medicaid bid protest, and the subsequent ruling to exclude the company from the program has resulted in negative publicity. continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow. our medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. loss of a material contract, reduced premium rates, or delayed payment of earned premiums may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our concentration of medicaid operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions, payment delays, loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, epidemics, pandemics, unexpected increases in utilization, advances in medical technology and pharmaceutical therapies, difficulties in managing provider costs, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in these states could therefore have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. we provide managed care programs and selected services to individuals receiving benefits under federal assistance programs, including medicare advantage, medicaid, and children's health insurance program ( chip ). we provide those health care services under contracts with regulatory entities in the areas in which we operate. for the year ended december 31, 2015, our medicaid operations in florida, georgia and kentucky each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes. these customers accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. our medicaid contracts are generally intended to run for one to three years and in some cases may be extended for additional years if the state or other sponsoring agency elects to do so. when our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care plans. there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended or, if renewed or extended, on what terms. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. if any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed or extended, renewed or extended on less favorable terms, or not renewed or extended on a timely basis, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows may be materially affected. 35 table of contents state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs. as a result, government agencies with which we contract may seek funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding for their medicaid programs. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us for these reasons or any other reason, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. we have experienced such rate decreases in the past and may do so in the future. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved state plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods, and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we derive a significant portion of our cash flow and gross margin from our pdp operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. the results of our bids could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. a significant portion of our pdp membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in cms-designated regions where our pdp premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. in general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding pdp membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. our 2014 medicare pdp bids were below the benchmarks in 30 of the 33 cms regions for which we submitted bids. however, our 2015 pdp bids resulted in one of our basic plans being below the benchmarks in 13 of the 33 cms regions for which we submitted bids and within the de minimis range in nine other regions. this resulted from the realignment of our benefit designs and cost structure. we may not be able to submit bids which are below benchmarks of other plans' bids in future years. our 2016 pdp bids resulted in one of our basic plans being below the benchmarks in 17 of the 34 cms regions and within the de minimis range in nine other regions. our membership decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 as those pdp members who were auto assigned to us in regions where our 2015 bids were not below or within the de minimis range were assigned to other plans. for those regions in which we are within the de minimis range, we will not be eligible to have new members auto-assigned to us, but we will not lose our existing auto-assigned membership. if our future part d premium bids are not below the cms benchmarks, we risk losing pdp members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional pdp members auto-assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenue and profits. if our actual costs of providing prescription drugs are higher than our estimated costs of providing prescription drugs when we provided our bids to cms, our funds receivable from cms could be higher than we anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, or successfully secure alternatives to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $1.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding consisting of a $300.0 million term loan and $900.0 million senior notes due 2020 (the "senior notes"). in january 2016, we entered into a new $850.0 million revolving credit agreement that matures in january 2021 and repaid the $300.0 million term loan in full. we have drawn $200.0 million of the revolving credit facility and we retain an additional $650.0 million of borrowing ability thereunder. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our and our subsidiaries' financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities, or to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes and the credit agreement. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the senior notes and the credit agreement, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled 36 table of contents debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the senior notes may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. if we are unable to pay our indebtedness on time, it could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness and materially adversely affect us. if we commit a material breach of our corporate integrity agreement, we may be excluded from certain programs, resulting in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses potentially having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. on april 26, 2011, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement (the corporate integrity agreement ) with the office of the inspector general of the department of health and human services ( oig-hhs ). the corporate integrity agreement has a term of five years and concludes the previously disclosed matters relating to us under review by oig-hhs. the corporate integrity agreement requires us to maintain various ethics and compliance programs that are designed to help ensure our ongoing compliance with federal health care program requirements. the terms of the corporate integrity agreement include certain organizational structure requirements, internal monitoring requirements, compliance training, screening processes for new employees, who we call associates, requirements for reporting to oig-hhs, and the engagement of an independent review organization to review and prepare written reports regarding, among other things, our reporting practices and bid submissions to federal health care programs. if we fail to comply with the terms of the corporate integrity agreement, we may be required to pay certain monetary penalties. furthermore, if we commit a material breach of the corporate integrity agreement, oig-hhs will exclude us from participating in federal health care programs. any such exclusion would result in the revocation or termination of contracts and/or licenses and potentially have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the requirements of the aca may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we believe the aca will continue to bring about significant changes to the american health care system. these measures are intended to expand the number of united states residents covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery, and payment changes to the current health care system. the costs of implementing the aca will be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. on june 28, 2012, the u.s. supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate contained in the aca and modified the medicaid expansion provisions to make the expansion optional for states. some states have decided not to participate in the medicaid expansion, and states currently participating may choose not to participate in the future. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to fully implement the aca, may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or could seek to repeal the law altogether. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation, and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the aca could change the way we do business, potentially affecting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix, and distribution channels. new or amended regulations and policies, as well as future legislative changes, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows by: restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; lowering our medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; encouraging states to contract with organizations that are not subject to the annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment imposed by the aca (the "aca industry fee") for their medicaid programs; and encouraging states to integrate medicare and medicaid using a limited number of health plans or a fee for service model. in addition, the response of other companies to these policy, regulatory and legislative changes and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful effect in the health care markets. 37 table of contents the aca included a number of changes that have affected the way plans operate, such as reduced medicare premium rates, cms star ratings, minimum medical loss ratios ("mlr") and other provisions. reduced medicare premium rates in april 2015, the cms final call letter revised the proposed 2016 rates, which we estimate will result in a rate decrease of approximately 1% compared with our 2015 rates. cms star ratings certain provisions in the aca provide additional medicare revenue related to the achievement of higher star ratings that can be used to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. in addition, plans with star ratings of 4.0 or higher are eligible for year-round open enrollment, whereas plans with lower star ratings have more restrictions on enrollment criteria and timing. part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are denoted as "low performing" plans on the cms website and in the cms "medicare and you" handbook. in addition, cms could exercise its authority to terminate the ma and pdp contracts for plans rated below three stars for three consecutive years for the plan year 2017. as a result, plans that achieve higher star ratings may have a competitive advantage over plans with lower star ratings. none of our plans achieved a 4.0 star rating in 2015, so we receive less quality-related additional revenue and have more restrictions on benefit design, enrollment criteria and timing than our competitors with higher star ratings. cms's current quality measurement methodology does not appropriately account for socio-economic determinants of health. because we have a greater percentage of lower-income members, we may be unable to achieve a 4.0 star rating for some or all of our plans without a legislative or regulatory adjustment to the quality measurement methodology. though various regulatory and legislative solutions have been proposed, we continue to work with our legislative and regulatory partners to ensure this issue is adequately addressed. in october 2015, cms announced 2016 ma and pdp star ratings. the star rating for eight of our 12 ma plans, which serve approximately 73% of our december 31, 2015 ma membership, received an overall rating of 3.0 stars or higher. our remaining four ma plans each received a score of 2.5 for 2016, and our stand-alone pdps received a combined score of 2.5 for 2016. two of our ma contracts have been denoted as "low performing" plans by cms: our ma contract serving arkansas, mississippi, tennessee and south carolina and our ma contract serving louisiana. however, we are working closely with cms to retain the membership associated with these contracts by consolidating these contracts into other, better-performing contracts held by us. as a result, though our ma contract serving arkansas, mississippi, tennessee and south carolina is subject to termination by cms for the plan year 2017, we do not anticipate this contract to be terminated. we expect that the membership for both of these contracts will be consolidated by january 1, 2017, which will remove the low performing designation. minimum medical loss ratio beginning in 2014, the aca established a minimum mlr for ma and part d plans, requiring plans to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical and pharmacy benefits. the rules implementing the minimum mlr impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum mlr, including requirements to refund to cms shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's ma contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum mlr. the mlr prescribed by hhs differs from the mlr calculation under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ("gaap") and is determined by adding a plan's spending for clinical services, prescription drugs and other direct patient benefits, plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). these provisions have not had a material effect on our results of operations in 2014 or 2015. other provisions under the aca, over a 10-year period beginning in 2010, the coverage gap (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications) under part d has been gradually closing, with beneficiaries retaining a 25% co-pay in 2020. while this change will ultimately result in increased insurance coverage for beneficiaries, such improved 38 table of contents benefits could result in changes in member behavior with respect to drug utilization. such actions could affect the cost structure of our pdps. the aca imposed certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as an annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment (the "aca industry fee") on health insurers, which began in 2014. the total aca industry fee levied on the health insurance industry was $8 billion and $11.3 billion in 2014 and 2015, respectively, growing to $14.3 billion by 2018. after 2018, the aca industry fee increases according to an index based on net premium growth. the assessment is being levied on certain health insurers that provide insurance in the assessment year, and is allocated to health insurers based on each health insurer's share of net premiums for all u.s health insurers in the year preceding the assessment. the aca industry fee is not deductible for income tax purposes, which has significantly increased our effective income tax rate. on december 18, 2015, the president signed the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 which, among other provisions, included a one-year moratorium on the aca industry fee for 2017. we incurred $137.7 million and $227.3 million in 2014 and 2015, respectively. we have received amendments, written agreements or other documentation from all our medicaid state customers that commit them to reimburse us for the portion of the aca industry fee on our medicaid plans, including its non-deductibility for income tax purposes, for 2014 and 2015. consequently, we recognized $124.6 million and $219.2 million of reimbursement for the aca industry fee as premium revenue for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2015, respectively. cms does not directly reimburse us for the effect of the aca industry fee related to ma and pdp premiums. the health reforms in the aca allow, but do not require, states to expand eligibility for medicaid programs. as a result, the effects of any potential future expansions and future federal financing are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net effect of the aca will be positive or negative for our medicaid business. future changes in health care laws present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. future changes in, or interpretations to, existing health care laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to change our operating structure; requiring significant additional reporting and technological capabilities; imposing additional fees and taxes, which cannot be offset by increased premium revenue; increasing mandated benefits, such as the proposed mental health parity regulation; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; and requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim (a claim for which no additional information is needed), payment methodologies and timing, utilization of mail order pharmacy, administrative simplification, mandatory network inclusion of certain providers, mandated increases in provider reimbursement rates, physician collective bargaining rights, centralized credentialing and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 was enacted in april 2015, which, among other things, preserved and extended the chips funding through fiscal year 2017 and extended the special needs program through 2018. there is no assurance that the chips and special needs programs will be further extended or funded. if these programs are not further funded, renewed or extended, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flow, membership and profitability. 39 table of contents our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. our contracts require the submission of complete and correct encounter data. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, in part, to set premium rates. we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct inaccurate or incomplete encounter data and have been, and continue to be exposed to operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. there also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. we have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. as states increase their reliance on encounter data, these difficulties could affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. we encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. we operate in, and may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively affect our ability to maintain or acquire profitable businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we entered into the health insurance exchange business in 2015 and only participated in kentucky and new york. as a result, individuals who select an exchange product in our other states, and subsequently become eligible for a medicaid plan that we offer, may be less likely to select or be assigned to us. regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. regulators may prefer companies that operate in lines of business in which we do not operate when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, which may cause our bid or renewal to be unsuccessful. we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. we may not be able to develop innovative products and services that are attractive to members. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully retain or acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers under acceptable contract terms to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. we are dependent on our senior management and we may not be able retain our senior management or attract and retain other qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry. if we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. in particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. in addition, we have in the past and may in the future modify our senior management structure, which could affect our retention of employees and management. 40 table of contents our ma plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. the independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may also recommend and/or market health care benefit products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth, and control medical cost trends and/or our pricing flexibility, may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. this model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms, and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. we reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to premium revenue. in addition, revisions by our government customers to the risk-adjustment models have reduced, and may continue to reduce, our premium revenue. as a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. the data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required. government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. we anticipate that cms will continue to conduct audits of our contracts and contract years on an on-going basis. an audit may result in the refund of premiums to cms. it is likely that a payment adjustment could occur as a result of these audits, and that any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any actual or alleged violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders and creditors. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any actual or alleged violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. the following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face: claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations; claims relating to sales practices; claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments; claims relating to claims payments and procedures; claims relating to provider marketing; 41 table of contents claims by providers for network termination or exclusion; anti-kickback claims; medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers' malpractice or negligence; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts or defamation claims; allegations of discrimination; allegations of breaches of duties; claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings and other statements; allegations of agent misconduct; claims related to deceptive trade practices; claims relating to audits and contract performance; protests related to medicaid awards; and violations of state procurement laws and policies. as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit, investigation or result from litigation could result in: loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; reduction or limitation of our membership; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future acquisitions or service or geographic expansion; suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service; and an event of default under our debt agreements. in particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent. some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. qui tam, or "whistleblower" actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. these actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions. for example, in october 2008, the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ) informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed an action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. with respect to these actions, we reached a settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut. however, other such actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other similar actions may be filed against us in the future. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with these audits, see risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows above. 42 table of contents in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program, have secondary insurance, are eligible for a different premium category or are eligible for a different program. our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previously paid premiums that we believe to be erroneous, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. if we are unable to access sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions under our credit agreement, restrictions under our senior notes, restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries, or higher levels of required statutory capital, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business strategy has been defined by four long-term business priorities, one of which includes our ability to enter new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines. we may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities. our ability to enter new markets may be hindered in situations where financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. financing may only be available to us with unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require to enter new markets, making such efforts unfeasible. our credit agreement and senior notes have restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our credit agreement is variable. our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our credit agreement and senior notes also contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. if we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. 43 table of contents in addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. our licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. in connection with some pending matters, including the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. we have exhausted our insurance for the expenses associated with the criminal trial of our former executive officers and associates, and the related government investigations that commenced in 2007, and further expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be reimbursed. we currently maintain insurance in the amount of $125.0 million, which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. we are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could affect our investment portfolio and our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of our assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could affect the value or liquidity, of our investment portfolio and adversely affect interest income. as a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. risks related to ownership of our stock we are subject to laws and government regulations that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states "control" of an entity is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of that entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. 44 table of contents our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. from time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: variations in our operating results; changes in our or the market's expectations about our future operating results; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the health care industry generally; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; news reports relating to trends in our markets; changes or proposed changes in the laws, regulations and policies affecting our business; acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; changes in our senior management; sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur; and the risks described in risks related to our business above. we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. we have an effective shelf registration statement on form s-3 filed with the sec under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. the registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the sec's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use form s-3. debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. these sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. risks related to information technology if we are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability, or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales, membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. there can also be no assurance that our process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations, complying with contractual data requirements and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, difficulty in improving quality, increases in administrative expenses and write-offs of our expenditures in unsuccessful capital investments. 45 table of contents additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our information systems, applications and critical business functions. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. our plan may not operate effectively during an actual disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on business and our results of operations. our costs to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information could be significant, and any disruptions or security breaches in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our information systems. anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. failure to keep our computer networks, information technology systems, computers and programs and our members' and customers' sensitive information secure from attack, damage or unauthorized access, whether as a result of our action or inaction or that of one of our business associates or other vendors, could adversely affect our reputation, membership and revenues and also expose us to mandatory disclosure to the media, contract termination, litigation (including class action litigation), and other enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, operating results or financial condition. our measures to prevent security breaches may not be successful. as we expand our business, including through acquisitions and organic growth, increase the amount of information we make available to members and consumers on mobile devices and expand our use of social media, our exposure to these data security and related cybersecurity risks, including the risk of undetected attacks, damage or unauthorized access, increases, and the cost of attempting to protect against these risks also increases. the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( arra ), modified certain provisions of the health insurance portability and accountability act ( hipaa ) by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions to business associates, mandating new regulations around electronic health records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, and increasing penalties for violations. civil penalties for hipaa violations by covered entities are up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. hhs is required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties became mandatory in february 2011, are statutorily required. in addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of hipaa privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. in addition, the hitech act requires us to notify affected individuals, hhs and, in some cases, the media, when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. the hitech act also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. while provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under the hitech act, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state medicaid agencies. we are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. on january 25, 2013, hhs, as required by the hitech act, issued the final omnibus rules that provide final modifications to hipaa rules to implement the hitech act. the various requirements of the hitech act have different compliance dates, some of which have passed and some of which will occur in the future. we will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under hipaa, as modified by the hitech act, continue to become effective and more 46 table of contents guidance becomes available from hhs and other federal agencies. the evolving privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, associate education and resources and there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. given hipaa's complexity and the evolving regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with all of the hipaa requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under the hitech act and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. our business could be adversely affected by adoption of the new icd-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. hhs has released rules pursuant to hipaa, which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic health care transactions. hhs also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. on october 1, 2015, the federal government required that health care organizations, including health insurers, upgrade to updated and expanded standardized code sets used for documenting health conditions. these new standardized code sets, known as icd-10, has required and will continue to require substantial investments from health care organizations, including us. while use of the icd-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and we do not expect it to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. however, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively affect our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may not be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed, for such services. in addition, claims not submitted in a timely manner as result of the icd-10 implementation may affect our ability to make accurate estimates of medical benefits expense. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. investment return market risk as of december 31, 2015 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.4 billion , investments classified as current assets of $204.4 million , long-term investments of $131.8 million and restricted investments on deposit for licensure of $196.0 million . the short-term investments classified as current assets consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and twelve months and longer term bonds with floating interest rates that are considered available for sale. restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their contractual maturity dates, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2015 , the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $2.7 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2015 would increase the fair value of our investments by approximately $2.6 million.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business the requirements of the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the "aca"), or its repeal, replacement or modification, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we believe the aca, or its repeal, replacement or modification, will continue to bring about significant changes to the american health care system. these measures are intended to expand the number of united states residents covered by health insurance and make other coverage, delivery and payment changes to the current health care system. the costs of implementing the aca, or its replacement or modification, may continue to be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. the medicaid expansion provisions remain optional for states. some states have decided not to participate in the medicaid expansion, and states currently participating may choose not to participate in the future. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to fully implement the aca, or its replacement or modification and currently intends to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal the law altogether. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the aca, or any replacement or modification, could change the way we do business, potentially affecting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix and distribution channels. new or amended regulations and policies, as well as future legislative changes, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by: restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; lowering our medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; encouraging states to contract with organizations that are not subject to the annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment imposed by the aca (the "aca industry fee") for their medicaid programs; and encouraging states to integrate medicare and medicaid using a limited number of health plans or a fee for service model. in addition, the response of other companies to these policy, regulatory and legislative changes and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful effect in the health care markets. the aca included a number of changes that have affected the way plans operate, such as reduced medicare premium rates, cms star ratings, minimum mlr and other provisions. reduced medicare premium rates in april 2016, the cms final call letter revised the proposed 2017 ma and part d rates. we estimate the 2017 rate change, as compared with 2016, will be flat to up one percent, excluding medicare coding trends and the 2017 aca fee moratorium. 30 table of contents cms star ratings certain provisions in the aca provide additional medicare revenue related to the achievement of higher star ratings that can be used to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. in addition, plans with star ratings of 4.0 or higher are eligible for year-round open enrollment, whereas plans with lower star ratings have more restrictions on enrollment criteria and timing. part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are denoted as "low performing" plans on the cms website and in the cms "medicare and you" handbook. as a result, plans that achieve higher star ratings may have a competitive advantage over plans with lower star ratings. none of our plans achieved a 4.0 star rating in 2016, so we receive less quality-related additional revenue and have more restrictions on benefit design, enrollment criteria and timing than our competitors with higher star ratings. because we have a greater percentage of lower-income members than our competitors, we may be unable to achieve or maintain a 4.0 star rating for some or all of our plans. in addition, cms could exercise its authority to terminate the ma and pdp contracts for plans rated below three stars for three consecutive years as of january 1, 2020. our ma plan in new york has received a score of 2.5 in 2016 and 2017 and could be subject to termination as early as january 1, 2020 if the score does not improve. minimum medical loss ratio beginning in 2014, the aca established a minimum mlr for ma and part d plans, requiring plans to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical and pharmacy benefits. the rules implementing the minimum mlr impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum mlr, including requirements to refund to cms shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's ma contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum mlr. the mlr prescribed by hhs differs from the mlr calculation under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ("gaap") and is determined by adding a plan's spending for clinical services, prescription drugs and other direct patient benefits, plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). these provisions have not had a material effect on our results of operations in 2014, 2015 or 2016. other provisions under the aca, over a 10-year period beginning in 2010, the coverage gap (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications) under part d has been gradually closing, with beneficiaries retaining a 25% co-pay in 2020. while this change will ultimately result in increased insurance coverage for beneficiaries, such improved benefits could result in changes in member behavior with respect to drug utilization. such actions could affect the cost structure of our pdps. the aca imposed certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as the aca industry fee on health insurers, which began in 2014. the total aca industry fee levied on the health insurance industry was $8 billion and $11.3 billion in 2014 and 2015, respectively, and if this provision remains, it will grow to $14.3 billion by 2018. after 2018, the aca industry fee could increase according to an index based on net premium growth. the assessment is being levied on certain health insurers that provide insurance in the assessment year, and is allocated to health insurers based on each health insurer's share of net premiums for all u.s health insurers in the year preceding the assessment. the aca industry fee is not deductible for income tax purposes, which has significantly increased our effective income tax rate. on december 18, 2015, president obama signed the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 which, among other provisions, included a one-year moratorium on the aca industry fee for 2017. the health reforms in the aca allow, but do not require, states to expand eligibility for medicaid programs. as a result, the effects of any potential future expansions and future federal financing are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net effect of the aca, or any replacement or modification, will be positive or negative for our medicaid business. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, expansions, divestitures or other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our membership has grown substantially due to acquisitions, geographic expansions and organic growth. we may not be successful in enhancing our infrastructure to support this continued growth, and delays in infrastructure improvements may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, due to the substantial initial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. 31 table of contents as part of our growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations. for example, in 2016, we completed our acquisition of care 1 st arizona, and our acquisition of universal american corp. is expected to close mid-2017. once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. depending on the transaction size, we may not be able to obtain appropriate financing. we may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities. once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating the businesses within our existing operations, due to factors such as: new associates who must become familiar with our operations and company culture; acquired provider networks that operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated; existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan; disparate administrative and information technology systems; and difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably. as a result, our acquired businesses may not perform as we anticipated, or in line with our existing businesses. in addition, if the expected future profitability of the acquired business declines, we may need to write down or incur impairment charges of the acquired assets. in the future, we may incur material expenses in connection with the integration and execution of acquisitions, expansions, and other significant transactions. furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity that is not successful. if we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by factors such as: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals to operate; lower quality scores compared to our competitors; participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; delays in the procurement, renewal or implementation of medicaid or similar programs in new or existing states; cms or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as cms star ratings; competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. in any program start-up, acquisition, expansion or re-bid, the implementation of the contract, as designed, may be affected by factors beyond our control. these include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbent medicaid contractors, participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, changes to the program design or implementation timing, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, and noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. as a result, our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively affected. in addition, when making award determinations and evaluating proposed acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. as a result of our previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, the restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and 32 table of contents employees that concluded in the second quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. in addition, the iowa medicaid bid protest, and the subsequent ruling to exclude the company from the program has resulted in negative publicity. continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow. the pending acquisition of universal american corp. ("uam") may not get completed in a timely manner, or at all, and once acquired, the transaction may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the conditions to the consummation of the transaction, including the adoption of the merger agreement by the stockholders of uam and the receipt of certain governmental and regulatory approvals may not occur, or competing offers for uam may be made in which cases, the transaction may not be completed. in addition, legal proceedings have been instituted against us, wind merger sub, inc., universal american corp. and its directors related to the merger agreement and the transaction, which may create additional expenses and delay the timely completion of the transaction and an adverse outcome may prevent the transaction from being completed. even if the transaction is completed, we may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies in the merger within the expected time frames or at all. the successful integration of uam's operations may be being more difficult or costly than expected, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could become unprofitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to estimate and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive (the medical benefits ratio or mbr ) can create significant changes in our financial results. many aspects of the managed care business are not predictable, and estimating medical benefits expense is a continuous process, which depends on the information available to us and our ability to utilize such information. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include, but are not limited to: the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion (including geographic expansion), whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected; an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of the introduction of new products or technologies, inflation or otherwise; the performance of our pharmaceutical benefit manager in managing our pharmaceutical costs; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services; contractual provisions related to continuity of care for new members; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and/or other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; challenges in implementing medical expense cost control initiatives, especially during the first year of a new medicaid program; new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations, public policy and/or practices; emerging changes in the economy; changes in members' behavior and health care utilization patterns; and provider billing practices (including if providers fail to provide appropriate codes for services as a result of the implementation of icd-10, effective october 1, 2015) and numerous other factors that are or may be beyond our control. the factors and assumptions that are used to develop our estimates of costs, including medical benefits expense, inherently are subject to greater variability when there is more limited experience or information available to us, or the state or federal client, such as when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program. in many cases, the degree of our ability to accurately estimate medical benefits expense may not be known until we have sufficient experience and more complete information. for example, levels of plan utilization and members' use of medical services, provider claims submissions, our payment processes and other factors can result in identifiable patterns emerging only following the passage of a significant period of time after the occurrence of the underlying causes of deviations from our assumptions. if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the 33 table of contents future, our profits would likely be reduced or we may not remain profitable, which would also affect our liquidity, cash flows and our ability to comply with statutory requirements. our medical benefits expense may exceed our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, and we may be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. assumptions and estimates are utilized in establishing premium deficiency reserves. if our assumptions are inaccurate, our reserves may be inadequate to pay medical costs and we may be required to establish or increase our premium deficiency reserves that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our ma and pdp plans, as well as certain of our medicaid plans, are subject to a minimum mlr, which requires health plans to spend not less than a certain percentage of premiums on medical benefits. if a minimum mlr is not met, then we could be required to refund a portion of our premiums back to the state or cms, as applicable. in addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for a supplemental security income ( ssi ) member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes; there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. some provider contracts are directly tied to state medicaid or medicare fee schedules, which the state or cms, respectively, may increase without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. we have experienced similar types of adjustments in states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively affected. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage medical benefits expenses. in some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. the uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. failure to maintain satisfactory quality and service measures could negatively affect our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of cms, to pay bonuses to ma plans that enable high scoring plans to offer enhanced health benefits, which are attractive to members. certain provisions in the aca provide additional medicare revenue related to the achievement of higher star ratings that can be used to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. in addition, plans with star ratings of 4.0 or higher are eligible for year-round open enrollment, whereas plans with lower star ratings have more restrictions on enrollment criteria and timing. as a result, plans that achieve higher star ratings may have a competitive advantage in the medicare market over plans with lower star ratings. none of our plans achieved a 4.0 star rating in 2016, so we receive less quality-related additional revenue and have more restrictions on benefit design, enrollment criteria and timing than our competitors with higher star ratings. we may not be able to improve our star ratings to receive additional quality-related revenue, more flexibility in our benefit design, or to market our products more freely in the future. this could have a material adverse effect on the profitability and membership of our medicare plans. 34 table of contents part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are denoted as "low performing" plans on the cms website and in the cms "medicare and you" handbook. furthermore, plans deemed low performing that participate in state medicare-medicaid dual-eligible demonstration programs are ineligible for passive enrollment, which is likely to result in lower market share in those programs. in addition, plans with any star ratings below 3.0 for three consecutive years may risk contract termination beginning january 1, 2020. three of our continuing ma contracts received 2.5 stars for the plan year 2017, one serving new york, one serving new jersey and one serving arkansas, illinois, mississippi, south carolina and tennessee. our ma plan in new york has received a score of 2.5 in 2016 and 2017 and could be subject to termination as early as january 1, 2020 if the score does not improve. there is no assurance that star ratings of 3.0 can be attained or maintained for any of these plans and they could, in the future, be subject to termination by cms. cms's current quality measurement methodology does not appropriately account for socio-economic determinants of health. because we have a greater percentage of lower-income members than average, we may be unable to achieve or maintain a 4.0 star rating for some or all of our plans without a legislative or regulatory adjustment to the quality measurement methodology. though various regulatory and legislative solutions have been proposed, we continue to work with our legislative and regulatory partners to ensure this issue is adequately addressed. however, our efforts may not be successful, and we could continue to have plans with star ratings lower than our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our membership and profitability of our ma and pdp lines of business. in certain state medicaid programs, plans that do not meet applicable quality and service measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, may not receive premiums withheld, may not be able to earn quality bonuses, may be required to pay penalties or may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. in addition, if the state determines that a health plan has failed to meet the contractual requirements for quality measures, these contracts may be subject to termination or other remedies, such as liquidated damages, at the discretion of the state. we are unable to predict what actions a state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. in addition, lower quality scores compared to our competitors may adversely affect our ability to attract members and obtain regulatory approval for acquisitions or expansions or succeed in competitive bidding situations. as a result, lower quality scores compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. our contracts require the submission of complete and correct encounter data. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, increasingly, to set premium rates. we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct inaccurate or incomplete encounter data and have been, and continue to be exposed to, operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. there also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. we have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. as states increase their reliance on encounter data, these difficulties could adversely affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. we rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts or applicable law could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we have determined, based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success, that it is more efficient to use third parties for certain functions and services. as a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration, claims processing functions, sales and marketing, reinsurance and certain aspects of utilization management. we have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. if a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our 35 table of contents vendors. significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or applicable law could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, transitioning services to another vendor, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. our medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. loss of a material contract, insufficient premium rates, delayed payment of earned premiums, refund of overpayments or decreased membership and other factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our concentration of medicaid operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of insufficient premium rates, payment delays, refund of overpayments, loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, including recertification requirements for eligibility, increased competition, catastrophic claims, epidemics, pandemics, unexpected increases in utilization, advances in medical technology and pharmaceutical therapies, difficulties in managing provider costs, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. for the year ended december 31, 2016, our medicaid operations in florida, georgia and kentucky each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes. these customers accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. in 2017, we expect our georgia medicaid market share of membership to decrease as a fourth managed care competitor is expected to enter the state as of july 1, 2017 and membership will be allocated to them. our medicaid contracts are generally intended to run for one to three years and in some cases may be extended for additional years if the state or other sponsoring agency elects to do so. when our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care plans. there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended or, if renewed or extended, on what terms. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. if any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed or extended, renewed or extended on less favorable terms or not renewed or extended on a timely basis or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially affected. most of our medicaid revenues under these contracts are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, depending on the type of member in our plans. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs using actuarially sound methods based on historical data, factors and assumptions. when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program, the factors and assumptions used to develop premiums and premium rates are subject to greater variability as there is limited experience or information available to us and the state. actual experience could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. in addition, our premium revenues remain subject to reconciliation and recoupment for many years. the refund of premium overpayment to the government customer could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that the repayment obligation is identified. state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs. as a result, government agencies with which we contract may seek funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding for their medicaid programs. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us for these reasons or any other reason, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, or delay increases in premiums, these could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. we have experienced such rate decreases and rate increase delays in the past and may do so in the future. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. 36 table of contents a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved state plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we derive a significant portion of our cash flow and gross margin from our pdp operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. the results of our bids could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. a significant portion of our pdp membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in cms-designated regions where our pdp premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. in general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding pdp membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. our 2017 pdp bids resulted in one of our basic plans being below the benchmarks in 30 of the 34 cms regions and within the de minimis range in three other regions compared with our 2016 bids, in which we were below the benchmarks in 17 of the 34 cms regions and within the de minimis range in nine other regions. for those regions in which we are within the de minimis range, we will not be eligible to have new members auto-assigned to us, but we will not lose our existing auto-assigned membership. if our future part d premium bids are not below the cms benchmarks, we risk losing pdp members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional pdp members auto-assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenue and profits. if our actual costs of providing prescription drugs are higher than our estimated costs of providing prescription drugs when we provided our bids to cms, our funds receivable from cms could be higher than we anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness or successfully secure alternatives to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding primarily consisting $900.0 million senior notes due 2020 (the "senior notes") and $100.0 million borrowed under the 2016 revolving credit facility. our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our and our subsidiaries' financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities or to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes and the credit agreement. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the senior notes and the credit agreement, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the senior notes may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. if we are unable to pay our indebtedness on time, it could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness and materially adversely affect us. future changes in health care laws present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. future changes in, or interpretations to, existing health care laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; 37 table of contents requiring us to change our operating structure; requiring significant additional reporting and technological capabilities; imposing additional fees and taxes, which cannot be offset by increased premium revenue; increasing mandated benefits, such as the proposed mental health parity regulation; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; and requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. on may 6, 2016, cms published regulations that overhauled medicaid managed care requirements. these regulations include requirements that state medicaid programs evaluate network adequacy standards and impose a requirement of managed care organizations ("mco") to report mlrs annually to states, as well as a requirement that states set mco rates to reasonably achieve an mlr of greater than 85% as long as the capitation rates are actuarially sound. additionally, these regulations expand federal financial participation reimbursement opportunities related to members with behavioral (mental) health issues who receive short term services in an alternative mental disease institution and outline requirements for value-based provider contracting. under the regulations, the states will also be tasked with developing and publicizing plan quality rating results. these changes will be phased in over the course of three years with some regulations being effective immediately on may 6, 2016. the implementation or lack of implementation by cms and the state medicaid agencies of these regulations may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim (a claim for which no additional information is needed), payment methodologies and timing, utilization of mail order pharmacy, administrative simplification, mandatory network inclusion of certain providers, mandated increases in provider reimbursement rates, physician collective bargaining rights, centralized credentialing and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 was enacted in april 2015, which, among other things, preserved and extended the chips funding through fiscal year 2017 and extended the special needs program through 2018. there is no assurance that the chips and special needs programs will be further extended or funded. if these programs are not further funded, renewed or extended, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flow, membership and profitability. we encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the criteria and scoring of the criteria used to award participation in certain government programs, such as medicaid and chip, are subject to substantial discretion and vary greatly among them. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. we also operate in, and may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive premium bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively affect our ability to maintain or acquire profitable businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. regulators may prefer companies that operate in lines of business in which we do not operate when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, which may cause our bid or renewal to be unsuccessful. we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. we may not be able to develop innovative products and services that are attractive to members. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully retain or acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to 38 table of contents deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers under acceptable contract terms to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. we are dependent on our senior management and we may not be able retain our senior management or attract and retain other qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry. in addition, we have in the past and may in the future modify our senior management structure, which could affect our retention of employees and management. if we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. in particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. for example, in 2016, several new members of senior management joined us, and we reorganized certain roles. these changes in our senior management may be disruptive to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and the market price of our common stock. our ma plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. the independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may also recommend and/or market health care benefit products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth and control medical cost trends and/or our pricing flexibility may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. this model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. we reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to premium revenue. in addition, revisions by our government customers to the risk-adjustment models have reduced, and may continue to reduce, our premium revenue. as a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required. government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. we anticipate that cms will continue to conduct audits of our medicare contracts and contract years on an on-going basis. an audit may result in the refund of premiums to cms. it is likely that a payment adjustment could occur as a result of these audits; and any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any actual or alleged violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders and creditors. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to 39 table of contents enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any actual or alleged violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. the following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face: claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations; claims relating to sales practices; claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments; claims relating to claims payments and procedures; claims relating to provider marketing; claims by providers for network termination or exclusion; anti-kickback claims; medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers' malpractice or negligence; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts or defamation claims; allegations of discrimination; allegations of breaches of duties; claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings and other statements; allegations of agent misconduct; claims related to deceptive trade practices; claims relating to audits and contract performance; protests related to medicaid awards; and violations of state procurement laws and policies. as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit, investigation or result from litigation could result in: loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; reduction or limitation of our membership; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future acquisitions or service or geographic expansion; suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service; and an event of default under our debt agreements. in particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent. some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. qui tam, or "whistleblower" actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. these actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions. 40 table of contents for example, in october 2008, the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ) informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed an action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. with respect to these actions, we reached a settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the middle district of florida, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut. however, other such actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other similar actions may be filed against us in the future. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with these audits, see risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows above. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by our government clients to collect premiums, and any inaccuracies in those lists may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility lists produced by our government clients. a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program, have secondary insurance, are eligible for a different premium category or are eligible for a different program. our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previous overpayments, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. if we are unable to access sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions under our credit agreement, restrictions under our senior notes, restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries or higher levels of required statutory capital, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business strategy includes entering new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines and pursuing acquisition opportunities. we may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities. our ability to enter new markets and purchase existing businesses may be hindered in situations where financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. financing may only be available to us with unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require making such efforts unfeasible. our credit agreement and senior notes have restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our credit agreement is variable. 41 table of contents our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our credit agreement and senior notes also contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. if we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. in addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. our licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital. our subsidiaries are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. in connection with some pending matters, including the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending. we have exhausted our insurance for the expenses associated with the criminal trial of our former executive officers and associates, and the related government investigations that commenced in 2007, and further expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be reimbursed. we currently maintain insurance in the amount of $125.0 million, which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. we are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could affect our investment portfolio and our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of our assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could affect the value or liquidity of our investment portfolio and adversely affect interest income. as a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. 42 table of contents risks related to ownership of our stock we are subject to laws and government regulations that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states "control" of an entity is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of that entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. from time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: variations in our operating results; changes in our or the market's expectations about our future operating results; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the health care industry generally; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; news reports relating to trends in our markets; changes or proposed changes in the laws, regulations and policies affecting our business; acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; changes in our senior management; sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur; and the risks described in risks related to our business above. we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. we have an effective shelf registration statement on form s-3 filed with the sec under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. the registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the sec's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use form s-3. debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. these sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. risks related to information technology if we or our vendors are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems and our vendors' management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales, membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, reinsurance, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and 43 table of contents extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. there can also be no assurance that our or our vendors' process of improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations, complying with contractual data requirements and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our and our vendors' information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. if we or our vendors are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, difficulty in improving quality, increases in administrative expenses and write-offs of our expenditures in unsuccessful capital investments. additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism, cybersecurity attacks or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our or our vendors' information systems, applications and critical business functions. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. our plan may not operate effectively during or following an actual attack or natural disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted or compromised, which would have a material adverse effect on business and our results of operations. our costs to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information could be significant, and any disruptions or security breaches in our or our vendors' information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and client data stored in our or our vendors' information systems. anyone who circumvents our or our vendors' security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in services or operations. the internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources. in the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could be introduced into our systems or those of our vendors, providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations or make our systems inaccessible to our vendors, providers or regulators. we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. failure to keep our or our vendors' computer networks, information technology systems, computers and programs and our members' and customers' sensitive information secure from attack, damage or unauthorized access, whether as a result of our action or inaction or that of one of our business associates or other vendors, could adversely affect our reputation, membership and revenues and also expose us to mandatory disclosure to the media, contract termination, litigation (including class action litigation), and other enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our business, cash flows, operating results or financial condition. our or our vendors' measures to prevent security breaches may not be successful. our business expansion, including through acquisitions and organic growth, the increased availability of information to members on mobile devices and the expansion of our use of social media, increases our exposure to data security and related cybersecurity risks. these risks include undetected attacks, damage or unauthorized access. the cost of attempting to protect against these risks also will increase. the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), one part of the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( arra ), modified certain provisions of the health insurance portability and accountability act ( hipaa ) by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions to business associates, mandating new regulations around electronic health records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, and increasing penalties for violations. civil penalties for hipaa violations by covered entities are up to an annual maximum of $1.5 million for uncorrected violations based on willful neglect. hhs is required to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance. investigations of violations that indicate willful neglect, for which penalties are mandatory, are statutorily required. in addition, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of hipaa privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. 44 table of contents in addition, the hitech act requires us or our vendors to notify affected individuals, hhs and, in some cases, the media, when unsecured personal health information is subject to a security breach. the hitech act also contains a number of provisions that provide incentives for states to initiate certain programs related to health care and health care technology, such as electronic health records. while provisions such as these do not apply to us directly, states wishing to apply for grants under the hitech act, or otherwise participating in such programs, may impose new health care technology requirements on us through our contracts with state medicaid agencies. we are unable to predict what such requirements may entail or what their effect on our business may be. on january 25, 2013, hhs, as required by the hitech act, issued the final omnibus rules that provide final modifications to hipaa rules to implement the hitech act. the various requirements of the hitech act have different compliance dates, some of which have passed and some of which will occur in the future. we will continue to assess our compliance obligations as regulations under hipaa, as modified by the hitech act, continue to become effective and more guidance becomes available from hhs and other federal agencies. the evolving privacy and security requirements, however, may require substantial operational and systems changes, associate education and resources and there is no guarantee that we will be able to implement them adequately or prior to their effective date. given hipaa's complexity and the evolving regulations, which may be subject to changing and perhaps conflicting interpretation, our or our vendors' ongoing ability to comply with all of the hipaa requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under the hitech act and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with its requirements. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. investment return market risk as of december 31, 2016 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.0 billion , investments classified as current assets of $124.2 million , long-term investments of $57.3 million and restricted investments on deposit for licensure of $234.3 million . the short-term investments classified as current assets consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and twelve months and longer term bonds with floating interest rates that are considered available for sale. restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their contractual maturity dates, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2016 , the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $1.5 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2016 would increase the fair value of our investments by approximately $1.5 million.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business the requirements of the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the "aca"), or its modification, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we believe the aca, or its modification, will continue to bring about significant changes to the american health care system. the costs of funding the aca, or its modification, may continue to be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. the medicaid expansion provisions remain optional for states. some states have decided not to participate in the medicaid expansion, and states currently participating may choose not to participate in the future. congress may also withhold the funding necessary to operate the aca, or its modification. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation and timing of these changes, which we expect to occur over the next several years, the aca, or any modification, could change the way we do business, potentially affecting our pricing, benefit design, product mix, geographic mix and distribution channels. new or amended regulations and policies, as well as future legislative changes, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by: reducing the federal matching payments to state medicaid programs; restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; lowering our medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; encouraging states to contract with organizations that are not subject to the annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment imposed by the aca (the "aca industry fee") for their medicaid programs; and encouraging states to integrate medicare and medicaid using a limited number of health plans or a fee for service model. in addition, the response of other companies to these policy, regulatory and legislative changes and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful effect in the health care markets. the aca included a number of changes that have affected the way plans operate, such as reduced medicare premium rates, minimum mlr and other provisions. reduced medicare premium rates in april 2017, the cms final call letter revised the proposed 2018 ma and part d rates. we estimate the 2018 rates, as compared with 2017, will decrease slightly, excluding medicare coding trends and the return of the aca industry fee. 32 table of contents minimum medical loss ratio beginning in 2014, the aca established a minimum mlr for ma and part d plans, requiring plans to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical and pharmacy benefits. the rules implementing the minimum mlr impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum mlr, including requirements to refund to cms shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's ma contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum mlr. the mlr prescribed by hhs differs from the mlr calculation under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ("gaap") and is determined by adding a plan's spending for clinical services, prescription drugs and other direct patient benefits, plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). these provisions have not had a material effect on our results of operations in 2015, 2016 or 2017. other provisions the aca imposed certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as the aca industry fee on health insurers, which began in 2014. the aca imposed certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as an annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment (the "aca industry fee") on health insurers, which began in 2014. the total aca industry fee levied on the health insurance industry was $11.3 billion in both 2015 and 2016, increasing to $14.3 billion in 2018. after 2018, the aca industry fee increases according to an index based on net premium growth. the assessment is being levied on certain health insurers that provide insurance in the assessment year, and is allocated to health insurers based on each health insurer's share of net premiums for all u.s health insurers in the year preceding the assessment. the aca industry fee is not deductible for income tax purposes, which has significantly increased our effective income tax rate. in december 2015, president obama signed the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 which, among other provisions, included a one-year moratorium on the aca industry fee for 2017. while the aca industry fee will be assessed in 2018, the continuing resolution approved in january 2018 provides for an additional one-year moratorium for 2019 for the aca industry fee. the re-imposition of the aca industry fee in 2018 and any future increases to the aca industry fee could increase our tax rates and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the health reforms in the aca allow, but do not require, states to expand eligibility for medicaid programs. in addition, the uncertainty of federal matching funds for the state medicaid programs, including the medicaid expansion populations, may make states more likely to further delay expanding medicaid eligibility. as a result, the effects of any potential future expansions and future federal financing are uncertain, making it difficult to determine whether the net effect of the aca, or any modification, will be positive or negative for our medicaid business. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, expansions, divestitures or other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our membership has grown substantially due to acquisitions, such as that of universal american corp. ("universal american") in 2017, geographic expansions and organic growth, such as the statewide expansion of medicaid in missouri. we may not be successful in enhancing our infrastructure to support this continued growth, and delays in infrastructure improvements may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, due to the substantial initial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. as part of our growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations. once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. depending on the transaction size, we may not be able to obtain appropriate financing. we may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities. once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating the businesses within our existing operations, due to factors such as: new associates who must become familiar with our operations and company culture; 33 table of contents acquired provider networks that operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated; existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan; disparate administrative and information technology systems; and difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably. as a result, our acquired businesses may not perform as we anticipated, or in line with our existing businesses. in addition, if the expected future profitability of the acquired business declines, we may need to write down or incur impairment charges of the acquired assets. in the future, we may incur material expenses in connection with the integration and execution of acquisitions, expansions, and other significant transactions. furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity that is not successful. if we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by factors such as: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals to operate; lower quality scores compared to our competitors; participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; delays in the procurement, renewal or implementation of medicaid or similar programs in new or existing states; cms or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as cms star ratings; competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. in any program start-up, acquisition, expansion or re-bid, the implementation of the contract, as designed, may be affected by factors beyond our control. these include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbent medicaid contractors, participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, changes to the program design or implementation timing, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, and noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. as a result, our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively affected. in addition, when making award determinations and evaluating proposed acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. as a result of our previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, the restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and employees that concluded in the second quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. in addition, the iowa medicaid bid protest, and the subsequent ruling to exclude the company from the program has resulted in negative publicity. continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow. if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could become unprofitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to estimate and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive (the medical benefits ratio or mbr ) can create significant changes in our financial results. many aspects of the managed care business are not predictable, and estimating medical benefits expense is a continuous process, which depends on the information available to us and our ability to utilize such information. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include, but are not limited to: 34 table of contents the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion (including geographic expansion), whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected; an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of the introduction of new products or technologies, inflation or otherwise; the performance of our pharmaceutical benefit manager in managing our pharmaceutical costs; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services; contractual provisions related to continuity of care for new members; contractual provisions or regulatory requirements restricting the use and design of medical expense initiatives, including the ability to control the pharmaceutical formulary in medicaid programs; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and/or other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; challenges in implementing medical expense cost control initiatives, especially during the first year of a new medicaid program; new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations, public policy and/or practices; emerging changes in the economy; changes in members' behavior and health care utilization patterns; provider billing practices; and changes in the fee schedules, rate design, and reimbursement structure for health care services. the factors and assumptions that are used to develop our estimates of costs, including medical benefits expense, inherently are subject to greater variability when there is more limited experience or information available to us, or the state or federal client, such as when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program. in many cases, the degree of our ability to accurately estimate medical benefits expense may not be known until we have sufficient experience and more complete information. for example, levels of plan utilization and members' use of medical services, provider claims submissions, our payment processes and other factors can result in identifiable patterns emerging only following the passage of a significant period of time after the occurrence of the underlying causes of deviations from our assumptions. if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits would likely be reduced or we may not remain profitable, which would also affect our liquidity, cash flows and our ability to comply with statutory requirements. our medical benefits expense may exceed our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, and we may be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. assumptions and estimates are utilized in establishing premium deficiency reserves. for example, we have established a premium deficiency reserve of $45.6 million in connection with the expanded illinois medicaid program. if our assumptions in establishing reserves are inconsistent with actual experience, our reserves may be inadequate to pay medical costs. we may be required to increase our premium deficiency reserve, or establish new premium deficiency reserves in connection with other contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our ma and pdp plans, as well as certain of our medicaid plans, are subject to a minimum mlr, which requires health plans to spend not less than a certain percentage of premiums on medical benefits. if a minimum mlr is not met, then we could be required to refund a portion of our premiums back to the state or cms, as applicable. in addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for a supplemental security income ( ssi ) member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes; there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. some provider contracts are directly tied to state medicaid or medicare fee schedules, which the state or cms, respectively, may increase without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. we have experienced similar types of adjustments in states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively affected. 35 table of contents also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage medical benefits expenses. in some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. the uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. failure to maintain satisfactory quality and service measures could negatively affect our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of cms, to pay bonuses to ma plans that enable high scoring plans to offer enhanced health benefits, which are attractive to members. certain provisions in the aca provide additional medicare revenue related to the achievement of higher star ratings that can be used to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. in addition, plans with star ratings of 4.0 or higher are eligible for year-round open enrollment, whereas plans with lower star ratings have more restrictions on enrollment criteria and timing. part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are denoted as "low performing" plans on the cms website and in the cms "medicare and you" handbook. in addition, cms could exercise its authority to terminate the ma and pdp contracts for plans rated below three stars for three consecutive years for the plan year 2020. as a result, plans that achieve higher star ratings may have a competitive advantage over plans with lower star ratings. cms's current quality measurement methodology does not appropriately account for socio-economic determinants of health. because we have a greater percentage of lower-income members than average, we may be unable to achieve or maintain a 4.0 star rating for some or all of our plans without a legislative or regulatory adjustment to the quality measurement methodology. though various regulatory and legislative solutions have been proposed, we continue to work with our legislative and regulatory partners to ensure this issue is adequately addressed. however, our efforts may not be successful, and we could continue to have plans with star ratings lower than our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our membership and profitability of our ma and pdp lines of business. in october 2017, cms announced 2018 ma and pdp star ratings. three of our 16 active ma contracts received an overall rating of 4.0 stars or higher and served approximately 38.7% of our december 31, 2017 ma membership, including contracts serving certain of our members in florida, maine, new york and texas. four of our ma contracts received an overall rating of 3.5 stars and served approximately 11.7% of our december 31, 2017 ma membership, including contracts serving certain of our members in arizona, california, new jersey, and new york. eight of our ma contracts received an overall rating of 3.0 stars, while we have one ma plan that received an overall score of 2.5 stars serving our members in hawaii and louisiana. our ma plan serving arkansas, illinois, mississippi, south carolina and tennessee received a score of 2.5 stars for its part c operations for 2017 and 2018 and could be subject to termination by cms if the score does not improve for 2019. additionally, our pdp plan received a score of 2.5 stars for 2017 and 2018 and could subject the contract to termination by cms if the score does not improve for 2019. in certain state medicaid programs, plans that do not meet applicable quality and service measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, may not receive premiums withheld, may not be able to earn quality bonuses, may be required to pay penalties or may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. in addition, if the state determines that a health plan has failed to meet the contractual requirements for quality measures, these contracts may be subject to termination or other remedies, such as liquidated damages, at the discretion of the state. we are unable to predict what actions a state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. 36 table of contents in addition, lower quality scores compared to our competitors may adversely affect our ability to attract members and obtain regulatory approval for acquisitions or expansions or succeed in competitive bidding situations. as a result, lower quality scores compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. our contracts require the submission of complete and correct encounter data. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and to set premium rates. we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct inaccurate or incomplete encounter data and have been, and continue to be exposed to, operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. there also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. we have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. as states increase their reliance on encounter data, these difficulties could adversely affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us and subject us to financial penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. we rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts or applicable law could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we have determined, based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success, that it is more efficient to use third parties for certain functions and services. as a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration and claims processing functions, sales and marketing, reinsurance, quality improvement efforts and certain aspects of utilization management. we have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. if a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or applicable law could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, transitioning services to another vendor, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. our medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. loss of a material contract, insufficient premium rates, delayed payment of earned premiums, refund of overpayments or decreased membership and other factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our concentration of medicaid operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of insufficient premium rates, payment delays, refund of overpayments, loss of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, including recertification requirements for eligibility, increased competition, catastrophic claims, epidemics, pandemics, unexpected increases in utilization, advances in medical technology and pharmaceutical therapies, difficulties in managing provider costs, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. 37 table of contents for the year ended december 31, 2017, our medicaid operations in florida and kentucky each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue, net of premium taxes. these customers accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. our medicaid contracts are generally intended to run for one to three years and in some cases may be extended for additional years if the state or other sponsoring agency elects to do so. when our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care plans. for example, the state of florida is in the process of re-procuring medicaid services for a five-year term commencing january 1, 2019. there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended or, if renewed or extended, on what terms. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. if any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed or extended, renewed or extended on less favorable terms or not renewed or extended on a timely basis or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially affected. most of our medicaid revenues under these contracts are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, depending on the type of member in our plans. the payments are generally set based on an estimation of the medical costs using actuarially sound methods based on historical data, factors and assumptions. when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program, the factors and assumptions used to develop premiums and premium rates are subject to greater variability as there is limited experience or information available to us and the state. actual experience could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical benefits expense. in addition, our premium revenues remain subject to reconciliation and recoupment for many years. the refund of premium overpayment to the government customer could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that the repayment obligation is identified. state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs. as a result, government agencies with which we contract may seek funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding, or changes to program design, including member eligibility and benefits for their medicaid programs. for example, the state of kentucky expects to implement new premium and work requirements for certain members to maintain their eligibility for the medicaid program beginning on july 1, 2018, which may reduce our medicaid membership in kentucky. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us for these reasons or any other reason, decrease members eligible to participate in the programs, reduce the benefits offered by the programs, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, or delay increases in premiums, these could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. we have experienced rate decreases and rate increase delays in the past and may do so in the future. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved state plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and programs under demonstrations are generally approved for two- to five-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we derive a significant portion of our cash flow and gross margin from our pdp operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. the results of our bids could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. a significant portion of our pdp membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in cms-designated regions where our pdp premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. in general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding pdp membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. our 2018 pdp bids resulted in one of our basic plans being below the benchmarks in 25 of the 34 cms regions, and within the de minimis range in five other regions, compared with our 2017 bids, in which we were below the benchmarks in 30 of the 34 cms regions, and within the de minimis range in three other regions. for those regions in which we are within the de minimis range, we will not be eligible to have new members auto-assigned to us, but we will not lose our existing auto-assigned membership. 38 table of contents if our future part d premium bids are not below the cms benchmarks, we risk losing pdp members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional pdp members auto-assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenue and profits. if our actual costs of providing prescription drugs are higher than our estimated costs of providing prescription drugs when we provided our bids to cms, our funds receivable from cms could be higher than we anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness or successfully secure alternatives to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding primarily consisting of $1.2 billion senior notes due 2025 (the "senior notes"). additionally, we had $1.0 billion available for borrowing under our 2016 revolving credit facility (the "credit agreement"). our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our and our subsidiaries' financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities or to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes and the credit agreement. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the senior notes and the credit agreement, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the senior notes may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. if we are unable to pay our indebtedness on time, it could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness and materially adversely affect us. future changes in health care laws present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. future changes in, or interpretations to, existing health care laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to change our operating structure; requiring significant additional reporting and technological capabilities; imposing additional fees and taxes, which cannot be offset by increased premium revenue; increasing mandated benefits, such as the proposed mental health parity regulation; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; and requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. on may 6, 2016, cms published regulations that overhauled medicaid managed care requirements. these regulations include requirements that state medicaid programs evaluate network adequacy standards and impose a requirement of managed care organizations ("mco") to report mlrs annually to states, as well as a requirement that states set mco rates to reasonably achieve an mlr of greater than 85% as long as the capitation rates are actuarially sound. additionally, these regulations expand federal financial participation reimbursement opportunities related to members with behavioral (mental) health issues who receive short term services in an alternative mental disease institution and outline requirements for value-based provider contracting. under the regulations, the states may also be tasked with developing and publicizing plan quality rating results. the degree of federal oversight in implementing these regulations is uncertain, and the states may retain substantial flexibility 39 table of contents in designing their medicaid programs. implementation or lack of implementation by cms and the state medicaid agencies of these regulations may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim (a claim for which no additional information is needed), payment methodologies and timing, utilization of mail order pharmacy, administrative simplification, mandatory network inclusion of certain providers, mandated increases in provider reimbursement rates, physician collective bargaining rights, centralized credentialing and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 was enacted in april 2015, which, among other things, extended the special needs program through 2018. on january 22, 2018, chip funding was extended for six years as part of a broader continuing resolution to fund the federal government. in addition, the resolution continued the enhanced federal match rate for chip established by the aca initially, but reduced the rate over time. the resolution also extended the requirement for states to maintain coverage for children from 2019 through 2023, but after october 1, 2019, the requirement is limited to children in families with incomes at or below 300% of the federal poverty level. on february 9, 2018, the bipartisan budget act of 2018 was enacted, which extended chip for an additional four years, until 2027, and permanently reauthorized ma special needs plans but imposed additional requirements for care coordination and integration of long-term services and supports. the funding of the chips and special needs programs by the federal government may be limited further, and eligibility for those programs may also be further restricted. if these programs are further modified or the funding further restricted, states could cease operating these programs, or limit their eligibility or benefits, or impose new requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flow, membership and profitability. the bipartisan budget act of 2018 also added additional flexibility to how acos can operate and accelerated the timing of the closure of the part d coverage gap (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications). as a result, part d beneficiaries' co-pays will be reduced to 25% of prescription costs in 2019, instead of that reduction occurring in 2020 under prior law. these changes, and other future changes to federal and state health care laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the criteria and scoring of the criteria used to award participation in certain government programs, such as medicaid and chip, are subject to substantial discretion and vary greatly among them. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. we also operate in, and may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive premium bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively affect our ability to maintain or acquire profitable businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. regulators may prefer companies that operate in lines of business in which we do not operate when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, which may cause our bid or renewal to be unsuccessful. we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. we may not be able to develop innovative products and services that are attractive to members. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully retain or acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers under acceptable contract terms to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. 40 table of contents we are dependent on our senior management and we may not be able retain our senior management or attract and retain other qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry. in addition, we have in the past and may in the future modify our senior management structure, which could affect our retention of employees and management. if we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. in particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. our ma plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. the independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may also recommend and/or market health care benefit products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth and control medical cost trends and/or our pricing flexibility may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. this model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. we reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to premium revenue. in addition, revisions by our government customers to the risk-adjustment models have reduced, and may continue to reduce, our premium revenue. as a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required. government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. we anticipate that cms will continue to conduct audits of our medicare contracts and contract years on an on-going basis. an audit may result in the refund of premiums to cms. it is likely that a payment adjustment could occur as a result of these audits; and any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any actual or alleged violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders and creditors. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any actual or alleged violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could damage our reputation and reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 41 table of contents we face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. the following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face: claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations; claims relating to sales practices; claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments; claims relating to claims payments and procedures; claims relating to provider marketing; claims by providers for network termination or exclusion; anti-kickback claims; medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers' malpractice or negligence; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts or defamation claims; allegations of discrimination; allegations of breaches of duties; claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings and other statements; allegations of agent misconduct; claims related to deceptive trade practices; claims relating to audits and contract performance; protests related to medicaid awards; and violations of state procurement laws and policies. as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit, investigation or result from litigation could result in: loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; reduction or limitation of our membership; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future acquisitions or service or geographic expansion; suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo or third party administrator or to otherwise provide a service; and an event of default under our debt agreements. in particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent. some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. qui tam, or "whistleblower" actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. these actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions. for example, in october 2008, the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ) informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed an action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. with respect to these actions, we reached a settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the 42 table of contents middle district of florida, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut. however, other such actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other similar actions may be filed against us in the future. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with these audits, see risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows above. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility systems provided by our government clients to have members assigned to us, collect premiums, and any inaccuracies or other problems in those systems may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, or our membership to decline, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. members are assigned to us and premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility systems provided by our government clients. if those eligibility systems do not function properly, fewer members may be assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program, have secondary insurance, are eligible for a different premium category, are eligible for a different program or did not meet additional eligibility criteria such as premium payments or work requirements. our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previous overpayments, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment, based on any inaccuracies or other errors in the states' eligibility systems. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. if we are unable to access sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions under our credit agreement, restrictions under our senior notes, restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries or higher levels of required statutory capital, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business strategy includes entering new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines and pursuing acquisition opportunities. we may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities. our ability to enter new markets and purchase existing businesses may be hindered in situations where financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. financing may only be available to us with unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require, making such efforts unfeasible. our credit agreement and senior notes have restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our credit agreement is variable. 43 table of contents our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in the credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our credit agreement and senior notes also contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or declare dividends without lender approval. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. if we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. in addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. our licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital and are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. in connection with some pending matters, including the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending, subject to the caps provided in our settlement agreements with certain individuals. we have exhausted our insurance for the expenses associated with the criminal trial of our former executive officers and associates, and the related government investigations that commenced in 2007, and further expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be reimbursed. we currently maintain insurance which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. we are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could affect our investment portfolio and our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of our assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, and market and interest rate risks. market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could affect the value or liquidity of our investment portfolio and adversely affect interest income. as a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. 44 table of contents risks related to ownership of our stock we are subject to laws and government regulations that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states "control" of an entity is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of that entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. from time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: variations in our operating results; changes in our or the market's expectations about our future operating results; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the health care industry generally; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; news reports relating to trends in our markets; changes or proposed changes in the laws, regulations and policies affecting our business; acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; changes in our senior management; sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur; and the risks described in risks related to our business above. we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. we have an effective shelf registration statement on form s-3 filed with the sec under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. the registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the sec's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use form s-3. debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. these sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. risks related to information technology if we or our vendors are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs and regulatory requirements, we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems and our vendors' management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales, membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, reinsurance, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. these 45 table of contents systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. there can also be no assurance that our or our vendors' process of maintaining and improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations, complying with contractual and regulatory requirements and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our and our vendors' information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and regulatory requirements. if we or our vendors are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, difficulty in improving quality, increases in administrative expenses and write-offs of our expenditures in unsuccessful capital investments. additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our or our vendors' information systems, applications and critical business functions. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. our plan may not operate effectively during or following an actual attack or natural disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted or compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. cybersecurity attacks also could significantly impair our or our vendors' information systems, or compromise our or our vendors' data security. despite our and our vendors efforts to secure information systems, we could be subject to cybersecurity incidents that bypass our security measures, impact the integrity, availability or privacy of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems, devices or business, including our ability to provide various health care services. as cyber threats continue to evolve from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities. cybersecurity attacks could result in (i) harm to our members, associates and providers; (ii) business interruptions and delays; (iii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iv) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; (v) reputational damage and (vi) federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. in addition, we and our vendors are subject to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ("hipaa") as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), as well as numerous other privacy and security laws and regulations at the federal and state levels. given the complexity and the evolving regulations related to data security and privacy, our or our vendors' ongoing ability to comply with such requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under such laws and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with such requirements, as well as subject us to significant penalties and reputational damage if we are unable to comply, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. investment return market risk as of december 31, 2017 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.2 billion , investments classified as current assets of $469.5 million , long-term investments of $766.2 million and restricted investments on deposit for licensure of $211.0 million . the short-term investments classified as current assets consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and twelve months that are considered available for sale. restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their contractual maturity dates, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2017 , the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $28.6 million. similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2017 would increase the fair value of our investments by approximately $28.6 million.risk factors you should carefully consider the following factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, in evaluating our company and our business. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our stock could decline. the risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect our company. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. as such, you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business the requirements of the patient protection and affordable care act, as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (collectively, the "aca"), or its modification, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we believe the aca, or its modification, will continue to bring about significant changes to the american health care system. the costs of funding the aca, or its modification, may continue to be financed, in part, from substantial additional fees and taxes on us and other health insurers, health plans and individuals, as well as reductions in certain levels of payments to us and other health plans under medicare. the aca medicaid expansion provisions remain optional for states. congress and the current presidential administration may also change the operation of specific programs authorized under the aca. given the breadth of possible changes and the uncertainties of interpretation, implementation and timing of any such changes, the aca (or any modification thereof) could change the way we do business, potentially affecting our pricing, benefit design, product mix and geographic mix. new or amended regulations and policies, as well as future legislative changes, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by: reducing the federal matching payments to state medicaid and chip programs; restricting revenue, enrollment and premium growth in certain products and market segments; restricting our ability to expand into new markets; increasing our medical and administrative costs; lowering our medicare payment rates and/or increasing our expenses associated with the non-deductible federal premium tax and other assessments; encouraging states to contract with organizations that are not subject to the annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment imposed by the aca (the "aca industry fee") for their medicaid programs; and encouraging states to integrate medicare and medicaid using a limited number of health plans or a fee for service model. in addition, the response of other companies to these policy, regulatory and legislative changes and adjustments to their offerings, if any, could have a meaningful effect in the health care markets. the aca included a number of changes that have affected the way plans operate, such as minimum mlr and other provisions. minimum medical loss ratio beginning in 2014, the aca established a minimum mlr for ma and part d plans, requiring plans to spend not less than 85% of premiums on medical and pharmacy benefits. the rules implementing the minimum mlr impose financial and other penalties for failing to achieve the minimum mlr, including requirements to refund to cms shortfalls in amounts spent on medical benefits and termination of a plan's ma contract for prolonged failure to achieve the minimum mlr. the mlr prescribed by hhs differs from the mlr calculation under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ("gaap") and is determined by adding a plan's spending for clinical services, prescription drugs and other direct patient benefits, plus its total spending on quality improvement activities and dividing the total by earned premiums (after subtracting specific identified taxes and other fees). these provisions have not had a material effect on our results of operations in 2016, 2017 or 2018. 29 table of contents other provisions the aca imposed certain new taxes and fees, including limitations on the amount of compensation that is tax deductible, as well as an annual premium-based health insurance industry assessment (the "aca industry fee"). the total aca industry fee levied on the health insurance industry was $11.3 billion in both 2015 and 2016, increasing to $14.3 billion in 2018. after 2018, the aca industry fee increases according to an index based on net premium growth. the assessment is being levied on certain health insurers that provide insurance in the assessment year, and is allocated to health insurers based on each health insurer's share of net premiums for all u.s health insurers in the year preceding the assessment. the aca industry fee is not deductible for income tax purposes, which has significantly increased our effective income tax rate. in december 2015, president obama signed the consolidated appropriations act, 2016 which, among other provisions, included a one-year moratorium on the aca industry fee for 2017. while the aca industry fee was assessed in 2018, the continuing resolution approved in january 2018 provides for an additional one-year moratorium for 2019 for the aca industry fee. the reinstatement of the aca industry fee and any future increases could increase our tax rates and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. five states are currently challenging the requirement that the irs assess the aca industry fee on medicaid and chip plans. as a result, there is uncertainty with respect to the aca industry fee, including that the aca industry fee could be reallocated to other health insurance products. changes to how the aca industry fee is assessed may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in december 2018, a texas federal district court ruled that the aca was unconstitutional. implementation of the ruling has been stayed pending appeal. if the ruling is ultimately upheld, the membership in our states which have expanded medicaid eligibility may be reduced, which may adversely affect our results of operations. any failure by us to manage acquisitions, expansions, divestitures or other significant transactions successfully may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business and membership has grown substantially due to acquisitions, such as that of universal american corp. ("universal american") in april 2017, the acquisition of meridian health plan of michigan, inc., meridian health plan of illinois, inc., and meridianrx, a pharmacy benefit manager ("pbm") (collectively, meridian ) in september 2018, geographic expansions and organic growth, such as the statewide expansion of medicaid in missouri. we may not be successful in enhancing our infrastructure to support this continued growth, and delays in infrastructure improvements may have a material adverse effect on our quality scores, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, due to the substantial initial costs related to acquisitions and expansions, such growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability and liquidity. as part of our growth strategy, we identify potential acquisition targets, bid and negotiate acquisition terms, work with regulators to receive regulatory approval for the acquisition and once the transaction is closed, we must integrate the acquisition into our operations. for example, we completed our acquisition of universal american in april 2017 and our acquisition of meridian in september 2018 and our acquisition of the entire stand-alone medicare part d prescription drug plan membership of aetna inc. in november 2018. once an attractive acquisition target is identified, we may not be successful in bidding against competitors. furthermore, we may incur significant transaction expenses in connection with a potential acquisition or expansion opportunity that is not successful. if we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth may suffer and our profitability may decrease. even if we are successful in bidding against competitors, we may not be able to complete an acquisition or completion may be delayed. we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval from federal and state agencies required to complete the acquisition. we also may not be able to comply with the regulatory requirements or conditions necessary for approval of the acquisition or state regulators may give preference to competing offers made by locally-owned entities, competitors with higher quality scores or not-for-profit entities. depending on the transaction size, we also may not be able to obtain appropriate financing. if we are unable to consummate the acquisitions we pursue, our ongoing business may be materially adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits that we could have realized had the acquisition been completed, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: the market price of our common stock could decline; 30 table of contents time and resources committed by our management to matters relating to the acquisition could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other beneficial opportunities; we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets or from our customers or employees; we will be required to pay our costs relating to the acquisition, such as termination fees and legal, accounting and financial advisory expenses; and we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the acquisition or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the transaction agreement. similarly, delays in the completion of acquisitions could, among other things, result in additional transaction costs or other negative effects associated with uncertainty about completion of the acquisition and cause us not to realize some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve if the acquisition is successfully completed within its expected timeframe. once acquired, we may have difficulties integrating acquired businesses, such as meridian and the aetna part d membership, within our existing operations, due to factors such as: new associates who must become familiar with our operations and company culture; difficulty retaining legacy employees and/or attracting new employees because of potential uncertainty in our business relating to the business combination; acquired provider networks that operate on different terms than our existing networks and whose contracts may need to be renegotiated; existing members who decide to switch to another health care plan; separate administrative and information technology systems; and difficulties implementing our operations strategy to operate the acquired businesses profitably. as a result, our acquired businesses may not perform as we anticipated, or in line with our existing businesses, may result in unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may be delayed or not be realized, which could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if the expected future profitability of the acquired business declines, we may need to write down or incur impairment charges of the acquired assets. in the future, we may incur material expenses in connection with the integration and execution of acquisitions, expansions, and other significant transactions, including the meridian acquisition. our rate of expansion into new products or other geographic areas may also be affected by factors such as: the time and costs associated with obtaining the necessary licenses and approvals to operate; lower quality scores compared to our competitors; loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; participation in fewer lines of business compared to our competitors; our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers that meets our requirements and those of government regulators; delays in the procurement, renewal or implementation of medicaid or similar programs in new or existing states; our ability to serve increased membership; cms or state contract provisions regarding quality measures, such as cms star ratings; loss of our ability to expand medicaid and medicare programs; competition, which increases the cost of recruiting members; the cost of providing health care services in those areas; demographics and population density; and applicable state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of capital and surplus. in any program start-up, acquisition, expansion or re-bid, the implementation of the contract, as designed, may be affected by factors beyond our control. these include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, incumbent medicaid contractors, participation in other lines of business, membership assignment (allocation of members who do not self-select), errors in the bidding process, changes to the program design or implementation timing, enrollment caps, difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers, and noncompliance with contractual requirements with which we do not yet have experience and similar risks. as a result, our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively affected. 31 table of contents in addition, when making award determinations and evaluating proposed acquisitions and expansions, regulators frequently consider the plan's historical regulatory compliance, litigation and reputation and we are required to disclose material investigations and litigation, including in some cases investigations and litigation that occurred in the past. as a result of our previous federal and state investigations, stockholder and derivative litigation, the restatement during 2009 of our previously issued financial statements and related matters, and the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and employees that concluded in the second quarter of 2013, we have been, and may continue to be, the subject of negative publicity. continuing negative publicity and other negative perceptions regarding these matters may adversely affect our ability to grow. if we are unable to estimate and manage medical benefits expense effectively, our profitability likely will be reduced or we could become unprofitable. our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to estimate and effectively manage our costs related to the provision of health care services. relatively small changes in the ratio of our expenses related to health care services to the premiums we receive (the "medical benefits ratio" or "mbr") can create significant changes in our financial results. many aspects of the managed care business are not predictable, and estimating medical benefits expense is a continuous process, which depends on the information available to us and our ability to utilize such information. factors that may cause medical benefits expense to exceed our estimates include, but are not limited to: the addition of new members, whether by acquisition, new enrollment, program startup or expansion (including geographic expansion), whose risk profiles are uncertain or unknown and for whom initiatives to manage their care take longer than expected; an increase in the cost of health care services and supplies, including pharmaceuticals, whether as a result of the introduction of new products or technologies, inflation or otherwise; the performance of our pharmaceutical benefit managers in managing pharmaceutical costs; higher-than-expected utilization of health care services, including pharmaceuticals; contractual provisions related to continuity of care for new members; contractual provisions or regulatory requirements restricting the use and design of quality and affordability initiatives, including the ability to control the pharmaceutical formulary in medicaid programs; periodic renegotiation of hospital, physician and/or other provider contracts; the occurrence of catastrophes, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics, terrorism or bio-terrorism; changes in the demographics of our members and medical trends affecting them; challenges in implementing medical expense cost control initiatives, especially during the first year of a new medicaid program or a new product; new mandated benefits, increased mandated provider reimbursement rates or other changes in health care laws, regulations, public policy and/or practices; emerging changes in the economy; changes in members' behavior and health care utilization patterns; provider billing practices; and changes in the fee schedules, rate design, and reimbursement structure for health care services. the factors and assumptions that are used to develop our estimates of costs, including medical benefits expense, inherently are subject to greater variability when there is more limited experience or information available to us, or the state or federal client, such as when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program. in many cases, the degree of our ability to accurately estimate medical benefits expense may not be known until we have sufficient experience and more complete information. for example, levels of plan utilization and members' use of medical services, provider claims submissions, our payment processes and other factors can result in identifiable patterns emerging only following the passage of a significant period of time after the occurrence of the underlying causes of deviations from our assumptions. if our medical benefits expense increases and we are unable to manage these medical costs effectively in the future, our profits would likely be reduced or we may not remain profitable, which would also affect our liquidity, cash flows and our ability to comply with statutory requirements. for example, the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 is gradually increasing rates on the provider fee schedule from june 30, 2015 to 2019. after 2019, the provider fee schedules will also adjust rates based on quality performance. this act also provided for incentive payments for those providers that participate in an alternative payment model, such as a demonstration program. beginning in 2019, the act also provides that we are required to pay out of network providers an additional quality-related payment pursuant to the merit based incentive payment system. these increases may increase our medical expenses and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 32 table of contents our medical benefits expense may exceed our estimates or our regulators' actuarial pricing assumptions, and we may be unable to adjust the premiums we receive under our current contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. assumptions and estimates are utilized in establishing premium deficiency reserves. for example, we have established a premium deficiency reserve of $16.1 million in connection with the expanded and combined illinois medicaid programs as of december 31, 2018. if our assumptions in establishing reserves are inconsistent with actual experience, our reserves may be inadequate to pay medical costs. we may be required to increase our premium deficiency reserve, or establish new premium deficiency reserves in connection with other contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our ma and pdp plans, as well as certain of our medicaid plans, are subject to a minimum mlr, which requires health plans to spend not less than a certain percentage of premiums on medical benefits. if a minimum mlr is not met, then we could be required to refund a portion of our premiums back to the state or cms, as applicable. in addition, there are sometimes wide variations in the established rates per member in both our medicaid and medicare lines of business. for instance, the rates we receive for a supplemental security income ("ssi") member are generally significantly higher than for a non-ssi member who is otherwise similarly situated. as the composition of our membership base changes as the result of programmatic, competitive, regulatory, benefit design, economic or other changes; there is a corresponding change to our premium revenue, costs and margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. some provider contracts are directly tied to state medicaid or medicare fee schedules, which the state or cms, respectively, may increase without granting a corresponding increase in premiums to us. we have experienced similar types of adjustments in states in which we operate. unless such adjustments are mitigated by an increase in premiums, or if this were to occur in any more of the states in which we operate, our profitability will be negatively affected. also, in some rural areas, it is difficult to maintain a provider network sufficient to meet regulatory requirements. in situations where we have a deficiency in our provider network, regulators require us to allow members to obtain care from out-of-network providers at no additional cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage medical benefits expenses. in some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. the uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustments of the payment could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. although we maintain reinsurance to protect us against certain severe or catastrophic medical claims, we cannot assure that such reinsurance coverage currently is or will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. failure to maintain satisfactory quality and service measures could negatively affect our premium rates, subject us to penalties, limit or reduce our membership, impede our ability to compete for new business in existing or new markets or result in the termination of our contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. quality scores are used by certain agencies to establish premium rates or, in the case of cms, to pay bonuses to ma plans that enable high scoring plans to offer enhanced health benefits, which are attractive to members. certain provisions in the aca provide additional medicare revenue related to the achievement of higher star ratings that can be used to offer more attractive benefit packages to members and/or achieve higher profit margins. in addition, plans with the highest star ratings of 5.0 are eligible for year-round open enrollment, whereas plans with lower star ratings have more restrictions on enrollment criteria and timing. part c or part d medicare plans with star ratings of less than three stars for three consecutive years are denoted as "low performing" plans on the cms website and in the cms "medicare and you" handbook. in addition, cms could exercise its authority to terminate the ma and pdp contracts for plans rated below three stars for three consecutive years for the plan year 2020. as a result, plans that achieve higher star ratings may have a competitive advantage over plans with lower star ratings. 33 table of contents cms's current quality measurement methodology does not appropriately account for socio-economic determinants of health. because we have a greater percentage of lower-income members than average, we may be unable to achieve or maintain a 4.0 star rating for some or all of our plans without a legislative or regulatory adjustment to the quality measurement methodology. though various regulatory and legislative solutions have been proposed, we continue to work with our legislative and regulatory partners to ensure this issue is adequately addressed. however, our efforts may not be successful, and we could continue to have plans with star ratings lower than our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our membership and profitability of our ma and pdp lines of business. in october 2018, cms announced 2019 ma and pdp star ratings. four of our 25 active ma contracts, serving certain members in california, florida, texas and new york/maine, received an overall rating of 4.0 stars or higher and served approximately 41.2% of our total ma membership as of december 31, 2018. excluding members from our two dual demonstration ma contracts, which are not subject to star ratings, these four contracts served approximately 42.2% of our total ma membership as of december 31, 2018. additionally, five of our ma contracts received an overall rating of 3.5 stars, including contracts serving certain of members in arizona, connecticut, kentucky, north carolina, new york and texas; while, eight of our ma contracts received an overall rating of 3.0 stars, serving members in 11 states, and eight of our ma contracts have not been scored due to size, are too new to be rated or not subject to star ratings. in certain state medicaid programs, plans that do not meet applicable quality and service delivery measures can be required to refund premiums previously received, may not receive premiums withheld, may not be able to earn quality bonuses, may be required to pay penalties or may be subject to enrollment limitations, including suspension of auto assignment of members, or termination of the contract. in addition, if the state determines that a health plan has failed to meet the contractual requirements for quality measures, these contracts may be subject to termination or other remedies, such as liquidated damages, at the discretion of the state. we are unable to predict what actions a state may take, if any, when assessing our contractual performance. in addition, lower quality scores and service measures for any of our lines of business compared to our competitors may adversely affect our ability to attract members and obtain regulatory approval for acquisitions or expansions or succeed in competitive bidding situations. as a result, lower quality scores and service measures compared to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, rate of growth, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our encounter data may be inaccurate or incomplete, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. our contracts require the submission of complete and correct encounter data. the accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and to set premium rates. we have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect or correct inaccurate or incomplete encounter data and have been, and continue to be exposed to, operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. in some instances, our government clients have established retroactive requirements for the encounter data we must submit. there also may be periods of time in which we are unable to meet existing requirements. in either case, it may be prohibitively expensive or impossible for us to collect or reconstruct this historical data. we have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data, due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. as states increase their reliance on encounter data, these difficulties could adversely affect the premium rates we receive and how membership is assigned to us and subject us to financial penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain programs. we rely on a number of third parties, and failure of any one of the third parties to perform in accordance with our contracts or applicable law could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we have determined, based on an evaluation of factors, including cost, compliance, quality and procurement success, that it is more efficient to use third parties for certain functions and services. as a result, we have contracted with a number of third parties to provide significant operational support including, but not limited to, pharmacy benefit management for our members as well as certain enrollment, billing, call center, benefit administration and claims processing functions, sales and marketing, reinsurance, quality improvement efforts and certain aspects of utilization management and for meridianrx pharmaceutical 34 table of contents discounts and rebates. we have limited ability to control the performance of these third parties. if a third party provides services that we are required to provide under a contract with a government client, we are responsible for such performance and will be held accountable by the government client for any failure of performance by our vendors. significant failure by a third party to perform in accordance with the terms of our contracts or applicable law could subject us to fines or other sanctions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, upon termination of a third party contract, we may encounter difficulties in replacing the third party on favorable terms, transitioning services to another vendor, or in assuming those responsibilities ourselves, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, quality scores and results of operations. further, we rely on state-operated systems and sub-contractors to qualify and assign eligible members into our health plan. ineffectiveness of these state operations and sub-contractors can have a material adverse effect on our enrollment. our medicaid operations are concentrated in a limited number of states. loss of a material contract, insufficient premium rates, delayed payment of earned premiums, refund of overpayments, enrollment caps or decreased membership and other factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our concentration of medicaid operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue, profitability or cash flow to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of insufficient premium rates, payment delays, refund of overpayments, loss of a material contract, legislative actions, delivery system reforms, changes in medicaid eligibility methodologies, including recertification requirements for eligibility, increased medicaid program integrity initiatives by cms, enrollment caps, increased competition, catastrophic claims, epidemics, pandemics, unexpected increases in utilization, advances in medical technology and pharmaceutical therapies, difficulties in managing provider costs, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. our inability to continue to operate in any of these states or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 our medicaid operations in florida and kentucky each accounted for greater than 10% of our consolidated premium revenue. these customers accounted for contracts that have terms of between one and three years with varying expiration dates. our medicaid contracts are generally intended to run for initial terms of less than five years and in some cases may be extended for additional years if the state or other sponsoring agency elects to do so. when our state contracts expire, they may be opened for bidding by competing health care plans. in july 2018, we received a notice of intent to award a contract from the florida department of health to provide statewide managed care services to more than 60,000 children with medically complex conditions through the children's medical services managed care plan ("cms plan"). the five-year contract award began on february 1, 2019; however, this contract is still subject to protest and appeal. there is no guarantee that our contracts will be renewed or extended or, if renewed or extended, on what terms. further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state after a short notice period in the event of unavailability of state funds. our contracts could also be terminated if we fail to perform in accordance with the standards set by state regulatory agencies. if any of our contracts are terminated, not renewed or extended, renewed or extended on less favorable terms or not renewed or extended on a timely basis or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in these states, our business will suffer, and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially affected. most of our medicaid revenues under these contracts are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member and supplemental payments for other services such as maternity deliveries, depending on the type of member in our plans. the payments are generally set based on benefit and non-benefit components. the estimation of these components use actuarially sound methods (actuarial standards of practice) based on historical utilization and price data, adjustments and trend factors, and other assumptions. when we commence operations in a new state or region or commence participation in a new program, the data, adjustments, factors and assumptions used to develop premiums and premium rates are subject to greater variability as there is limited managed care experience or information available to us and the state. actual costs and financial results could differ from the assumptions used in the premium-setting process, which could result in premiums being insufficient to cover our medical and non-benefits expense. in addition, our premium revenues remain subject to reconciliation and recoupment for many years. the refund of premium overpayment to the government customer could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that the repayment obligation is identified. state governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their medicaid programs. as a result, government agencies with which we contract may seek to reduce funding, which may result in changes to program design, including member eligibility and benefits for their medicaid programs. for example, the state of kentucky intends to 35 table of contents implement new premium and community engagement or work requirements for certain members to maintain their eligibility for the medicaid program, which may reduce our medicaid membership in kentucky. if any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us for these reasons or any other reason, decrease members eligible to participate in the programs, reduce the benefits offered by the programs, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, or delay increases in premiums, these could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. we have experienced rate decreases and rate increase delays in the past and may do so in the future. economic conditions affecting state governments and agencies could also result in delays in receiving premium payments. for example, illinois has delayed its premium payments for the medicaid program. if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to pay health benefit costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. a significant percentage of our medicaid plan enrollment results from mandatory enrollment in medicaid managed care plans. states may mandate that certain types of medicaid beneficiaries enroll in medicaid managed care through cms-approved state plan amendments or, for certain groups, through federal waivers or demonstrations. waivers and demonstration programs are generally approved for two- to five-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies and the waiver request is approved or renewed by cms. we have no control over this renewal process. if a state in which we operate does not mandate managed care enrollment in its state plan or does not renew an existing managed care waiver, our membership would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we derive a significant portion of our cash flow and gross margin from our pdp operations, for which we submit annual bids for participation. the results of our bids could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. a significant portion of our pdp membership is obtained from the auto-assignment of beneficiaries in cms-designated regions where our pdp premium bids are below benchmarks of other plans' bids. in general, our premium bids are based on assumptions regarding pdp membership, utilization, drug costs, drug rebates and other factors for each region. our 2019 pdp bids resulted in 21 of 34 cms regions in which we were below the benchmarks, and within the de minimis range in ten other regions, compared with our 2018 pdp bids in which we were below the benchmarks in 25 of the 34 cms regions, and within the de minimis range in five other regions. for those regions in which we are within the de minimis range, we will not be eligible to have new members auto-assigned to us, but we will not lose our existing auto-assigned membership. if our future part d premium bids are not below the cms benchmarks, we risk losing pdp members who were previously assigned to us and we may not have additional pdp members auto-assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenue and profits. we are offering a new enhanced pdp product in 2019. in connection with the new business, the actual costs of providing prescription drugs may be higher than we estimated. if our actual costs of providing prescription drugs are higher than our estimated costs of providing prescription drugs when we provided our bids to cms, our funds receivable from cms could be higher than we anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. we may not be able to generate or access sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness or successfully secure alternatives to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $2.1 billion in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding primarily consisting of $1.2 billion senior notes due 2025 and $750.0 million senior notes due 2026 (together, the "senior notes") and $200.0 million outstanding under our $1.3 billion revolving credit facility (the amended and restated credit agreement ). our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our and our subsidiaries' financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. as a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities or to access the cash flows of our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our current indebtedness, as well as any additional debt we may incur. we cannot assure that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at 36 table of contents such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. if we are unable to pay our indebtedness on time, it could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness and materially adversely affect us. future changes in health care laws present challenges for our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. future changes in, or interpretations to, existing health care laws or regulations, or the enactment of new laws or the issuance of new regulations could materially reduce our revenue and/or profitability by, among other things: imposing additional license, accreditation, registration and/or capital requirements; increasing our administrative and other costs; requiring us to change our operating structure; requiring significant additional reporting and technological capabilities; imposing additional fees and taxes, which cannot be offset by increased premium revenue; increasing mandated benefits, such as the proposed mental health parity regulation; further limiting our ability to engage in intra-company transactions with our affiliates and subsidiaries; restricting our revenue and enrollment growth; requiring us to restructure our relationships with providers; and requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. in may 2016, cms published regulations that overhauled medicaid managed care requirements. these regulations include requirements that state medicaid programs evaluate network adequacy standards and, if a state chooses to impose a minimum mlr, requires managed care organizations ("mco") to report mlrs annually to states, requires those states to set mco rates to reasonably achieve an mlr of greater than 85% as long as the capitation rates are actuarially sound. additionally, these regulations expand federal financial participation reimbursement opportunities related to members with behavioral (mental) health issues who receive short term services in an alternative institute for mental disease and outline requirements for value-based provider contracting. under the regulations, the states may also be tasked with developing and publicizing plan quality rating results. the degree of federal oversight in implementing these regulations is uncertain, and the states may retain substantial flexibility in designing their medicaid programs. implementation or lack of implementation by cms and the state medicaid agencies of these regulations may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. five states are currently challenging the requirement that the irs assess the aca industry fee on medicaid and chip plans. as a result, there is uncertainty with respect to the aca industry fee, including that the aca industry fee could be reallocated to other health insurance products. changes to how the aca industry fee is assessed may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. requirements relating to increased plan information disclosure, expedited appeals and grievance procedures, third party review of certain medical decisions, health plan liability, access to specialists, clean claim (a claim for which no additional information is needed), payment methodologies and timing, utilization of mail order pharmacy, administrative simplification, mandatory network inclusion of certain providers, physician collective bargaining rights, centralized credentialing and confidentiality of medical records either have been enacted or are under consideration. changes in state law, regulations and rules also may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 was enacted in april 2015, which, among other things, extended the special needs program through 2018. in addition, this act is gradually increasing rates on the provider fee schedule from june 30, 2015 to 2019. after 2019, the provider fee schedules will also adjust rates based on quality performance. this act also provided for incentive payments for those providers that participate in an alternative payment model, such as a demonstration program. beginning in 2019, the act also provides that we are required to pay out of network providers an additional quality-related payment pursuant to the merit based incentive payment system. these increases may increase our medical expenses and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. on february 9, 2018, the bipartisan budget act of 2018 was enacted, which extended chip funding through 2027 and permanently reauthorized ma special needs plans, but imposed additional requirements for care coordination and integration of long-term services and supports. this legislation followed an earlier continuing resolution that continued funding and the enhanced federal match rate for chip established by the aca initially but reduced the rate over time, and extended the requirement for states to maintain coverage for children from 2019 through 2023, but limited the requirement to children in 37 table of contents families with incomes at or below 300% of the federal poverty level after october 1, 2019. the funding of the chips and special needs programs by the federal government may be limited further, and eligibility for those programs may also be further restricted. if these programs are further modified or the funding further restricted, states could cease operating these programs, or limit their eligibility or benefits, or impose new requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flow, membership and profitability. further, changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, purchase discount and rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, or to formulary management or other pharmaceutical benefit management services could also reduce the discounts or rebates we receive on pharmaceutical drugs. in addition, changes in federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to pharmaceutical pricing, claims processing and billing, the development and use of formularies and other utilization management tools, the use of average wholesale prices, a list of maximum allowable costs, transmission fees or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals, limited access to networks and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies, could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, our pharmacy benefit manager provides services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to erisa. a private party or the department of labor, which is the agency that enforces erisa, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy benefit manager even if it is not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations and we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims that we entered into certain prohibited transactions. the bipartisan budget act of 2018 also added additional flexibility to how acos can operate and accelerated the timing of the closure of the part d coverage gap (i.e., the dollar threshold at which an individual has to pay full price for his or her medications). as a result, part d beneficiaries' co-pays will be reduced to 25% of prescription costs in 2019, instead of that reduction occurring in 2020 under prior law. these changes, and other future changes to federal and state health care laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we encounter significant competition for program participation, members, network providers, key personnel and sales personnel and our failure to compete successfully may limit our ability to increase or maintain membership in the markets we serve, or have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the criteria and scoring of the criteria used to award participation in certain government programs, such as medicaid and chip, are subject to substantial discretion and vary greatly among them. some of our competitors are more established in the insurance and health care industries, with larger market share, greater financial resources and better quality scores than we have in some markets. we also operate in, and may attempt to acquire business in, programs or markets in which premiums are determined on the basis of a competitive premium bidding process. in these programs or markets, funding levels established by bidders with significantly different cost structures, target profitability margins or aggressive bidding strategies could negatively affect our ability to maintain or acquire profitable businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. regulatory reform or other initiatives may bring additional competitors into our markets. regulators may prefer companies that operate in lines of business in which we do not operate when we bid on new business or renewals of existing business, which may cause our bid or renewal to be unsuccessful. we compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, pharmacy network, benefits provided and quality of service. we may not be able to develop innovative products and services that are attractive to members. we may not be able to comply with the service level agreements or other terms of our pharmaceutical benefit management contracts held by meridianrx with third-parties, and lose customers, or be required to pay penalties. we may grow more, or at a faster pace, than expected, which may affect service levels. we cannot be sure that we will continue to remain competitive, nor can we be sure that we will be able to successfully retain or acquire members for our products and services at current levels of profitability. in addition, we compete with other health plans to contract with hospitals, physicians, pharmacies and other providers for inclusion in our networks that serve government program beneficiaries. we believe providers select plans in which they participate based on several criteria including reimbursement rates, timeliness and accuracy of claims payment, potential to deliver new patient volume and/or retain existing patients, effectiveness of resolution of calls and complaints and other factors. we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully attract or retain providers under acceptable contract terms to maintain a competitive network in the geographic areas we serve. 38 table of contents we are dependent on our senior management and we may not be able retain our senior management or attract and retain other qualified management, clinical and commercial personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel in the managed care and health care industry. in addition, we have in the past and may in the future modify our senior management structure, which could affect our retention of employees and management. if we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. in particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, and our business may be harmed as a result. our ma plans are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. the independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may also recommend and/or market health care benefit products of our competitors, and we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our product portfolio, which is complex, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. to the extent that competition intensifies in any market that we serve, our ability to retain or increase members and providers, maintain or increase our revenue growth and control medical cost trends and/or our pricing flexibility may be adversely affected. failure to compete successfully in the markets we serve may have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects and results of operations. risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. most of our government customers employ risk-adjustment models to determine the premium amount they pay for each member. this model pays more for members with predictably higher costs according to the health status of each beneficiary enrolled. premium payments are generally established at fixed intervals according to the contract terms and then adjusted on a retroactive basis. we reassess the estimates of the risk adjustment settlements each reporting period and any resulting adjustments are made to premium revenue. in addition, revisions by our government customers to the risk-adjustment models have reduced, and may continue to reduce, our premium revenue. as a result of the variability of certain factors that determine estimates for risk-adjusted premiums, including plan risk scores, the actual amount of retroactive payments could be materially more or less than our estimates. consequently, our estimate of our plans' risk scores for any period, and any resulting change in our accrual of premium revenues related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the data provided to our government customers to determine the risk score are subject to audit by them even after the annual settlements occur. these audits may result in the refund of premiums to the government customer previously received by us, which could be significant and would reduce our premium revenue in the year that repayment is required. government customers have performed and continue to perform audits of selected plans to validate the provider coding practices under the risk adjustment model used to calculate the premium paid for each member. we anticipate that cms will continue to conduct audits of our medicare contracts and contract years on an on-going basis. an audit may result in the refund of premiums to cms. it is likely that a payment adjustment could occur as a result of these audits; and any such adjustment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are subject to extensive government regulation and risk of litigation, and any actual or alleged violation by us of the terms of our contracts, applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business is extensively regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. the laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect health plan members and providers rather than stockholders and creditors. the government agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. these laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what services we offer, and how we interact with our members, providers and the public. any actual or alleged violation by us of applicable laws or regulations could damage our reputation and reduce our revenues and profitability, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 39 table of contents we face a significant risk of class action lawsuits and other litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. the following are examples of types of potential litigation and regulatory investigations we face: claims by government agencies relating to compliance with laws and regulations; claims relating to sales practices and member enrollment; claims relating to the methodologies for calculating premiums; claims relating to the denial or delay of health care benefit payments; claims relating to claims payments and procedures; claims relating to provider marketing; claims by providers for network termination or exclusion; anti-kickback claims; medical malpractice or negligence actions based on our medical necessity decisions or brought against us on the theory that we are liable for our providers' malpractice or negligence; allegations of anti-competitive and unfair business activities; provider disputes over compensation and termination of provider contracts or defamation claims; allegations of discrimination; allegations of breaches of duties; claims relating to inadequate or incorrect disclosure or accounting in our public filings and other statements; allegations of agent misconduct; claims related to deceptive trade practices; claims relating to audits and contract performance; protests related to medicaid awards; and violations of state procurement laws and policies. as we contract with various governmental agencies to provide managed health care services, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. any adverse review, audit, investigation or result from litigation could result in: loss of our right to participate in government-sponsored programs, including medicaid and medicare; forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our government contracts; imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and/or our key associates; reduction or limitation of our membership; damage to our reputation in various markets; increased difficulty in marketing our products and services; inability to obtain approval for future acquisitions or service or geographic expansion; suspension or loss of one or more of our licenses to act as an insurer, hmo, third party administrator, or pharmaceutical benefit manager or to otherwise provide a service; and an event of default under our debt agreements. in particular, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to various laws commonly referred to as fraud and abuse laws, including the federal false claims act, which permit agencies and enforcement authorities to institute suit against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek treble damages, penalties and assessments. many states, including states where we currently operate, have enacted parallel legislation. liability under such federal and state statutes and regulations may arise if we know, or it is found that we should have known, that information we provide to form the basis for a claim for government payment is false or fraudulent. some courts have permitted false claims act suits to proceed if the claimant was out of compliance with program requirements. liability for such matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. qui tam, or "whistleblower" actions under federal and state law can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government. these actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of health care companies to defend false claim actions, pay fines or be excluded from medicare, medicaid or other state or federal health care programs as a result of investigations arising out of such actions. for example, in october 2008, the civil division of the united states department of justice (the civil division ) informed us that as part of its civil inquiry, it was investigating four complaints filed by relators against us under the whistleblower provisions of the false claims act. we also learned from a docket search that a former employee filed an action in state court for leon county, florida against several defendants, including us and one of our subsidiaries. with respect to these actions, we reached a settlement with the civil division, the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the 40 table of contents middle district of florida, and the civil division of the united states attorney's office for the district of connecticut. however, other such actions may have been filed against us of which we are presently unaware, or other similar actions may be filed against us in the future. we are currently undergoing standard periodic audits by several state agencies and cms to verify compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations. for additional risks associated with these audits, see risk-adjustment payment systems make our revenue and results of operations more difficult to estimate and could result in material retroactive adjustments that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows above. in addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. these have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies' products. for example, cms and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market medicare products. these investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. we rely on the accuracy of eligibility systems provided by our government clients to have members assigned to us, collect premiums, and any inaccuracies or other problems in those systems may cause states to recoup premium payments from us, or our membership to decline, which could materially reduce our revenues and results of operations. members are assigned to us and premium payments that we receive are based upon eligibility systems provided by our government clients. if those eligibility systems do not function properly, fewer members may be assigned to us, which could materially reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, a state will require us to reimburse it for premiums that we received from the state based on an eligibility list that it later discovers contains individuals who were not eligible for any government-sponsored program, have been enrolled twice in the same program, have secondary insurance, are eligible for a different premium category, are eligible for a different program or did not meet additional eligibility criteria such as premium payments or work requirements. our review of remittance files may not identify all member eligibility errors and could result in repayment of premiums in years subsequent to the year in which the revenue was recorded. we have established a reserve in anticipation of recoupment by the states of previous overpayments, but ultimately our reserve may not be sufficient to cover the amount, if any, of recoupments. if the amount of any recoupment exceeds our reserves, our revenues could be materially reduced and it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition to recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also face the risk that a state could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment, based on any inaccuracies or other errors in the states' eligibility systems. our results of operations would be reduced as a result of the state's failure to pay us for related payments we made to providers and were unable to recoup. if we are unable to access sufficient capital, whether as a result of difficulties finding acceptable public or private financing, restrictions under the agreements governing our indebtedness, restrictions on dividend payments from our subsidiaries or higher levels of required statutory capital, we may be unable to grow or maintain our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our business strategy includes entering new markets by pursuing attractive growth opportunities for our existing product lines and pursuing acquisition opportunities. we may need to access the debt or equity markets and receive dividends from our subsidiaries to fund these growth activities, such as the $ 1.4 billion in equity proceeds we raised and the $ 750.0 million in new senior notes we issued to fund the purchase price of the meridian acquisition. our ability to enter new markets and purchase existing businesses may be hindered in situations where financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. financing may only be available to us with unfavorable terms such as high rates of interest, restrictive covenants and other restrictions that could impede our ability to profitably operate our business and increase the expected rate of return we require, making such efforts unfeasible. our amended and restated credit agreement and senior notes have restrictions on our ability to secure additional capital. our substantial indebtedness and restrictive covenants: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and 41 table of contents expose us to greater interest rate risk since the interest rate on borrowings under our amended and restated credit agreement is variable. our debt service obligations require us to use a portion of our operating cash flow to pay interest and principal on indebtedness instead of for other corporate purposes, including funding future expansion of our business and ongoing capital expenditures, which could impede our growth. if our operating cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to comply with the financial covenants in our amended and restated credit agreement or to service our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt, which could harm our long-term business prospects. our amended and restated credit agreement and senior notes also contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our financial and operating flexibility, including our ability to grow our business or pay dividends without lender approval. if we fail to pay any of our indebtedness when due, or if we breach any of the other covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, one or more events of default may be triggered. if we are unable to obtain a waiver, these events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owed to be immediately due and payable. we expect the debt instruments relating to any future debt we incur to include similar covenants and restrictions. in addition, in most states, we are required to seek the prior approval of state regulatory authorities to transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts or, in some states, any amount. if our state regulators do not approve payments of dividends and/or distributions by certain of our regulated subsidiaries to us or our non-regulated subsidiaries, our liquidity, unregulated cash flows, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. our licensed hmo and insurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and maintenance of certain financial ratios, as defined by each state. states may raise the statutory capital level from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and liquidity. our subsidiaries also may be required to maintain higher levels of statutory capital and are subject to their state regulators' general oversight powers. regardless of whether a state adopts the risk-based capital requirements, the state's regulators can require our subsidiaries to maintain minimum levels of statutory net worth in excess of amounts required under the applicable state laws if they determine that maintaining such additional statutory net worth is in the best interests of our members and other constituents. for example, if premium rates are inadequate, reduced profits or losses in our regulated subsidiaries may cause regulators to increase the amount of capital required. any additional capital contribution made to one or more of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and growth potential. in addition, increases of statutory capital requirements could cause us to withdraw from certain programs or markets where it becomes economically difficult to continue operating profitably. our indemnification obligations and the limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. under delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors, officers and associates with respect to current and future investigations and litigation. in connection with some pending matters, including the criminal trial of certain of our former executives and associates, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, significant legal fees and related expenses and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending, subject to the caps provided in our settlement agreements with certain individuals. we have exhausted our insurance for the expenses associated with the criminal trial of our former executive officers and associates, and the related government investigations that commenced in 2007, and further expenses incurred by us for these matters will not be reimbursed. we currently maintain insurance which provides coverage for our independent directors and officers hired after january 24, 2008 for certain potential matters to the extent they occur after october 2007. we cannot provide any assurances that pending claims, or claims yet to arise, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. we are exposed to fluctuations in the securities and debt markets, which could affect our investment portfolio and our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. our investment portfolio represents a significant portion of our assets and is subject to general credit, liquidity, and market and interest rate risks. market fluctuations in the securities and credit markets could affect the value or liquidity of our 42 table of contents investment portfolio and adversely affect interest income. as a result, we may experience a reduction in value or loss of liquidity which may materially affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. risks related to ownership of our stock we are subject to laws and government regulations that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions favorable to stockholders. our operating subsidiaries are subject to state laws that require prior regulatory approval for any change of control of an hmo or insurance company. for purposes of these laws, in most states "control" of an entity is presumed to exist when a person, group of persons or entity acquires the power to vote 10% or more of the voting securities of that entity, subject to certain exceptions. these laws may discourage acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular through unsolicited transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into transactions that some or all of our stockholders find favorable. our stock price and trading volume may be volatile and future sales of our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. from time to time, the price and trading volume of our common stock, as well as the stock of other companies in the health care industry, may experience periods of significant volatility. company-specific issues and developments generally in the health care industry (including the regulatory environment) and the capital markets and the economy in general may cause this volatility. our stock price and trading volume may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: variations in our operating results; changes in our or the market's expectations about our future operating results; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the health care industry generally; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; news reports relating to trends in our markets; changes or proposed changes in the laws, regulations and policies affecting our business; acquisitions and financings by us or others in our industry; changes in our senior management; sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our directors and executive officers or principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur; and the risks described in risks related to our business above. we may issue equity securities in the future, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. we have an effective shelf registration statement on form s-3 filed with the sec under which we may offer from time to time an indeterminate amount of any combination of debt securities, common and preferred stock and warrants. the registration statement allows us to seek additional financing, subject to the sec's rules and regulations relating to eligibility to use form s-3. debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, including sales of shares in connection with any future acquisitions, could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. for instance, we issued 5,207,547 shares of common stock to fund a portion of the meridian acquisition. these sales may have a harmful effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at a time and price favorable to us. holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase a pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. our certificate of incorporation provides that we have authority to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the meridian acquisition may not be accretive and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. although we currently anticipate that the meridian acquisition will be accretive to earnings per share (on an adjusted earnings basis that is not pursuant to gaap and excluding transaction and integration costs), this expectation is based on assumptions, including about our and meridian's business, and preliminary estimates, each of which may change materially. as a result, the meridian acquisition may cause dilution to our earnings per share or the expected accretive effect of the meridian acquisition may be less than anticipated or delayed, each of which may cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. 43 table of contents in addition, we could encounter additional transaction-related costs or other factors, such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the meridian acquisition, including cost and revenue synergies. all of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the meridian acquisition and cause a decrease in the market price of our common stock. risks related to information technology if we or our vendors are unable to maintain effective and secure management information systems and applications, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs and regulatory requirements, we could experience operational disruptions and other materially adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. our business depends on effective and secure information systems, applications and operations. the information gathered, processed and stored by our management information systems and our vendors' management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales, membership tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, reinsurance, financial and management accounting, reporting, and planning and analysis. these systems also support our customer service functions, provider and member administrative functions and support tracking and extensive analysis of medical expenses and outcome data. these systems remain subject to unexpected interruptions resulting from occurrences such as hardware failures or increased demand. there can be no assurance that such interruptions will not occur in the future, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. moreover, operating and other issues can lead to data problems that affect the performance of important functions, including, but not limited to, claims payment, customer service and financial reporting. there can also be no assurance that our or our vendors' process of maintaining and improving existing systems, developing new systems to support our operations, complying with contractual and regulatory requirements and improving service levels will not be delayed or that system issues will not arise in the future. our and our vendors' information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and regulatory requirements. if we or our vendors are unable to maintain or expand our systems, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, such as the inability to pay claims or to make claims payments on a timely basis, loss of members, difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems, difficulty in improving quality, increases in administrative expenses and write-offs of our expenditures in unsuccessful capital investments. additionally, events outside our control, including terrorism or acts of nature such as hurricanes, earthquakes, or fires, could significantly impair our or our vendors' information systems, applications and critical business functions. to help ensure continued operations in the event that our primary operations are rendered inoperable, we have a disaster recovery plan to recover critical business functionality within stated timelines. our plan may not operate effectively during or following an actual attack or natural disaster and our operations and critical business functions could be disrupted or compromised, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. cybersecurity attacks also could significantly impair our or our vendors' information systems, or compromise our or our vendors' data security. despite our and our vendors' efforts to secure information systems, we could be subject to cybersecurity incidents that bypass our security measures, impact the integrity, availability or privacy of personal health information or other data subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information systems, devices or business, including our ability to provide various health care services. as cyber threats continue to evolve from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced attacks against information systems, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities. cybersecurity attacks could result in (i) harm to our members, associates and providers; (ii) business interruptions and delays; (iii) the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; (iv) litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; (v) reputational damage and (vi) federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. in addition, we and our vendors are subject to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ("hipaa") as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (the hitech act ), as well as numerous other privacy and security laws and regulations at the federal and state levels. given the complexity and the evolving regulations related to data security and privacy, our or our vendors' ongoing ability to comply with such requirements is uncertain, which may expose us to the criminal and increased civil penalties provided under such laws and may require us to incur significant costs in order to seek to comply with such requirements, as well as subject us to significant penalties and 44 table of contents reputational damage if we are unable to comply, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk. investment return market risk as of december 31, 2018 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $3.7 billion , investments classified as current assets of $830.1 million , long-term investments of $813.2 million and restricted investments on deposit for licensure of $234.7 million . the short-term investments classified as current assets consist of highly liquid securities with maturities between three and twelve months that are considered available for sale. restricted assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and u.s. treasury instruments deposited or pledged to state agencies in accordance with state rules and regulations. these restricted assets are classified as long-term regardless of the contractual maturity date due to the nature of the states' requirements. the investments classified as long term are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rates increase. because of their contractual maturity dates, however, we would not expect the value of these investments to decline significantly as a result of a sudden change in market interest rates. assuming a hypothetical and immediate 1% increase in market interest rates at december 31, 2018 , the fair value of our fixed income investments would decrease by approximately $25.0 million . similarly, a 1% decrease in market interest rates at december 31, 2018 would increase the fair value of our investments by approximately $25.0 million .