quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information with respect to the company's market risk is contained under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in md&a on pages 15-16 hereof. 17quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information with respect to the company market risk is contained under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in md a on pages 24-25 hereof. 26quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information with respect to the company market risk is contained under the caption quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in md a on page 25 hereof. 28quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we utilize a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. at september 30, 2004 and 2003, we had no commercial paper borrowings outstanding. during 2004, the weighted average commercial paper borrowings were $1.8 million compared to $26.5 million in 2003. there were no bank borrowings outstanding at september 30, 2004 and 2003. our results of operations are affected by changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings. if market interest rates would have averaged 10 percent higher than actual levels in either 2004 or 2003, the effect on our results of operations would not have been material. 28 we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $757.7 million at september 30, 2004 and $772.4 million at september 30, 2003. the fair value of this debt was $837.1 million at september 30, 2004 and $843.4 million at september 30, 2003. the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners equity. in september 2002, we entered into an interest rate swap contract that effectively converted our $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15% notes, payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based on six-month libor. the floating rate was 4.27 percent at september 30, 2004. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the swap or our results of operations. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in foreign currencies. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the utilization of foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage our exposure on transactions denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. in addition, we enter into contracts to hedge certain forecasted intercompany transactions. contracts are executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. it is our policy not to enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. we do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to united states dollars. a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value in earnings immediately. at september 30, 2004 and 2003, we had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily consisting of contracts to exchange the euro, pound sterling, swiss franc, australian dollar and canadian dollar. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be material to our financial condition, results of operations or shareowners equity. 29quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. at september 30, 2005 and 2004, we had no commercial paper or bank borrowings outstanding. during 2005, we had no commercial paper borrowings. in 2004, the weighted average commercial paper borrowing was $1.8 million. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. if market interest rates would have averaged 10 percent higher than actual levels in either 2005 or 2004, the effect on our results of operations would not have been significant. in october 2005, we issued $300 million of unsecured commercial paper obligations with maturities of 1 to 28 days. we used the proceeds of the commercial paper to partially fund a $450 million voluntary contribution to our u.s. qualified pension plan trust made on october 11, 2005. as these obligations mature, we anticipate issuing additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $748.2 million at september 30, 2005 and $757.7 million at september 30, 2004. the fair value of this debt was $826.2 million at september 30, 2005 and $837.1 million at september 30, 2004. the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners equity. in september 2002, we entered into an interest rate swap contract that effectively converted our $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15% notes, payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based on six-month libor. the floating rate was 6.23 percent at september 30, 2005. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates would not be significant to the overall fair value of the swap or our results of operations. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in foreign currencies. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage our exposure on transactions denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. in addition, we enter into contracts to hedge certain forecasted intercompany transactions expected to occur within the next four years. contracts are executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. we do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to united states dollars. a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. 33 table of contents we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value in earnings immediately. at september 30, 2005 and 2004, we had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily consisting of contracts to exchange the euro, swiss franc, canadian dollar, british pound sterling, and australian dollar for u.s. dollars. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. 34 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors for additional information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information products and services. the company was incorporated in delaware in 1996 in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, the former rockwell international corporation (ric) contributed all of its businesses, other than the a d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. on june 29, 2001, we completed the spinoff of our rockwell collins avionics and communications business into an independent, separately traded, publicly held company named rockwell collins, inc. (rockwell collins). in september 2004, we sold our firstpoint contact business. additional information related to this divestiture is contained in note 13 in the financial statements. in june 2006, we announced our intention to divest our dodge mechanical and reliance electric motors and motor repair services businesses. these are the principal businesses of our power systems operating segment. these businesses are reflected in continuing operations for all periods presented as the criteria for discontinued operations prescribed by statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets, had not been met as of september 30, 2006, the date in which this standard requires the criteria to be assessed. on november 7, 2006, we announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell these businesses to baldor electric company (baldor) for $1.8 billion, comprised of $1.75 billion in cash and $50 million in baldor common stock. the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approval and is expected to close in the second quarter of our fiscal 2007. in subsequent filings these businesses will be reported as discontinued operations. 2 in september 2006, we and rockwell collins sold our investment in rockwell scientific company llc (rsc). before the sale, we and rockwell collins each owned 50 percent of rsc. additional information regarding the sale of rsc is contained in note 14 in the financial statements. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareowners of the company to be held on february 7, 2007 (the 2007 proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ( md a ), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years refer to our fiscal year unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: control systems and power systems. in 2006, our total sales were $5.6 billion. financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2006, is contained under the caption results of operations in md a , and in note 18 in the financial statements. effective october 1, 2006, we have realigned our internal management reporting structure. the reporting structure changes include realignment of our control systems services and solutions offerings to report through the components and packaged applications group (cpag). additionally, the power systems custom drives and drives related parts and services business has been realigned to also report through cpag. as a result of changes in the internal management reporting structure, we will begin reporting the historical control systems operating segment as two separate operating segments in our first quarter of 2007. control systems control systems is our largest operating segment with 2006 sales of $4.6 billion (82 percent of our total sales) and approximately 19,000 employees at september 30, 2006. control systems supplies industrial automation products, systems, software and services focused on helping customers control and improve manufacturing processes. the operating segment includes two main business groups: cpag and the automation control and information group (acig). cpag supplies industrial components, power control and motor management products, and packaged and engineered products and systems. cpag sales account for approximately 39 percent of control systems sales. acig core products are used primarily to control and monitor industrial plants and processes and typically consist of a processor, software and input/output (i/o) devices. acig integrated architecture and logix controllers perform multiple types of control applications, including discrete, batch, continuous process, drive system, motion and machine safety across various factory floor operations. acig sales account for approximately 45 percent of control systems sales. in addition, control systems offerings also include services and solutions, such as multi-vendor customer support, training, automation systems integration, asset management, and manufacturing information solutions for discrete and targeted batch process industries. control systems service and solution offerings compete with emerson electric co., general electric company, invensys, siemens ag and system integrators. 3 the following is a summary of the major products and services and major competitors of control systems two main business groups: business group major products / services major competitors cpag motor starters abb, ltd. contactors schneider electric sa push buttons siemens ag signaling devices termination and protection devices relays and timers condition sensors adjustable speed drives motor control centers drive systems acig controllers emerson electric co. control platforms mitsubishi corp. software omron corp. input/output devices schneider electric sa high performance rotary and linear siemens ag motion control systems electronic operator interface devices sensors industrial computers machine safety components depending on the product or service involved, control systems competitors range from large diversified businesses that sell products outside of industrial automation, to smaller companies specializing in niche products and services. factors that influence control systems competitive position are its broad product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, large installed base, established distribution network, quality of products and services, price and global presence. control systems products are marketed primarily under the allen-bradley and rockwell software brand names. major markets served include consumer products, transportation, oil and gas, mining, metals and forest products. in north america, control systems products are sold primarily through independent distributors that typically do not carry products that compete with allen-bradley products. large systems and service offerings are sold principally through a direct sales force, though opportunities are sometimes sourced through distributors or system integrators. product sales outside the united states occur through a combination of direct sales, sales through distributors and sales through system integrators. in 2006, sales in the united states accounted for 57 percent of control systems sales. outside the u.s., control systems primary markets were canada, china, the united kingdom, italy, germany, brazil, australia, korea and mexico. control systems is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin and has operations in north america; europe, middle east and africa; asia-pacific; and latin america. power systems power systems recorded 2006 sales of $1.0 billion (18 percent of our total sales) and had approximately 4,000 employees at september 30, 2006. power systems consists of two business groups: dodge mechanical (mechanical) and reliance electrical (electrical). 4 the following is a summary of the major products and services and major competitors of the power systems operating segment: business group major products / services major competitors mechanical mounted bearings altra industrial motion, inc. gear reducers emerson electric co. mechanical drives martin sprocket and gear, inc. conveyor pulleys regal-beloit corporation couplings rexnord corporation bushings sew eurodrive gmbh clutches siemens ag motor brakes skf ab tb woods corp. the schaeffer group (ina brand) timken company electrical industrial and engineered motors a.o. smith corporation adjustable speed drives baldor electric company repair services emerson electric co. motor and mechanical maintenance solutions general electric co. training regal-beloit corporation consulting services to oems, siemens ag end-users and distributors teco-westinghouse motor company toshiba corp. weg sa depending on the product involved, power systems competitors range from large diversified businesses that sell products outside of industrial automation, to smaller companies specializing in niche products and services. factors that influence power systems competitive position are product quality, installed base, price and our established distributor network. while power systems competitive position is strong in the united states, it is limited somewhat by its small presence outside the united states. mechanical products are marketed primarily under the dodge brand name while electrical products are marketed primarily under the reliance and reliance electric tm brand names. major markets served include mining, cement, aggregates, environmental, forest products, food/beverage, oil and gas, metals and material handling. mechanical products are sold primarily through distributors while electrical products are sold primarily through a direct sales force. in 2006, sales in the united states accounted for 85 percent of power systems sales. outside the u.s., power systems primary markets were canada, china and mexico. power systems is headquartered in greenville, south carolina and has operations in north america, europe, latin america and asia-pacific. geographic information in 2006, sales in the united states accounted for 62 percent of our total sales. our principal markets outside the united states are in canada, china, the united kingdom, italy, germany, mexico, brazil, australia and korea. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside of the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 18 in the financial statements. 5 research and development our research and development spending is (in millions): year ended september 30, 2006 2005 2004 control systems $ 148.5 $ 128.2 $ 111.8 power systems 11.9 10.4 9.9 $ 160.4 $ 138.6 $ 121.7 customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2006, 2005 or 2004. employees at september 30, 2006 we had approximately 23,000 employees. approximately 14,000 were employed in the united states, and, of these employees, about 5 percent were represented by various local or national unions. raw materials and supplies we purchase many items of equipment, components and materials used to produce our products from others. the raw materials essential to the conduct of each of our business segments generally are available at competitive prices. although we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog was $911.7 million at september 30, 2006 and $772.5 million at september 30, 2005. backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 17 in the financial statements. see also item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. see item 3. legal proceedings . while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company name and its registered trademark rockwell automation is important to each of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use for certain products and services, such as allen-bradley and a-b for electronic controls and systems for industrial automation, reliance and reliance electric tm for electric motors and drives and dodge for mechanical power transmission products. although we have announced the signing of a definitive agreement to sell the principal businesses of our power systems operating segment, we will retain the reliance electric tm and reliance branded drives business and related parts and services as an integral part of our global drives and services businesses. we will retain a long-term license to the reliance and reliance electric tm trademarks in connection with the drives business. 6 seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can be affected by the seasonal capital spending patterns of our customers due to their annual capital budgeting processes and their working schedules combined with seasonal changes in the composition of the products and services our customers purchase. available information we maintain an internet site at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the securities and exchange commission (sec). all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available at our internet site. these guidelines and charters are also available in print to any shareowner upon request. the information contained on and linked from our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. the certifications of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer required pursuant to sections 302 and 906 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 are included as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k and were included as exhibits to each of our quarterly reports on form 10-q filed during 2006. our chief executive officer certified to the new york stock exchange (nyse) on march 2, 2006 pursuant to section 303a.12 of the nyse listing standards, that he was not aware of any violation by the company of the nyse corporate governance listing standards as of that date. item 1a. risk factors we generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the united states. approximately 38 percent of our revenues in 2006 were outside of the u.s. future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on continued growth in our non-u.s. operations. numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-u.s. operations. these risks and uncertainties include political and economic instability, changes in local governmental laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, exchange controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. international transactions may also involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs, including risks of non-compliance with u.s. and local laws affecting our activities abroad. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. while these factors and the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. an inability to anticipate changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. general economic, business or industry conditions may result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of global industrial production. as economic activity slows down, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, resulting in decreased demand for our products. if this occurs, our revenues and profitability may be negatively affected. information technology infrastructure failures could significantly affect our business. we depend heavily on our information technology infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. if we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important it application, or an intentional disruption of our it systems by a third party, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. 7 we are in the process of introducing a global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that will redesign and deploy new processes, organization structures and a common information system over a period of several years. our first significant roll-outs of the system are scheduled to occur at several of our u.s. locations in fiscal 2007. as we implement the erp system, the new system may not perform as expected. this could have an adverse effect on our business. the growth of our control systems solutions offerings may create additional risks. risks inherent in the sale of systems and solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the efficiency and quality of our subcontractors. our inability to control, manage, and mitigate these risks could adversely affect our results of operations. the global industrial automation power, control and information products and services industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several specific respects, including pricing, product performance, developing integrated systems and applications that address the business challenges faced by our customers and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the geographic markets and product areas that we serve. price competition in our various industries is intense. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes, we may experience price erosion and lower margins. we expect that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. a disruption to our distribution channel could have an adverse effect on our operating results. in the united states and canada, approximately 75 percent of our sales are through a limited number of third party distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to the existing channel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. a disruption could be caused by the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of the distributor, or other events. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims) could adversely affect our business. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment and contract matters. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain components of our products many years ago. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. the inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business and our customers. we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the loss of patents or licenses used in principal portions of our business may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. in addition, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we sometimes provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could have an adverse effect on our business. dispositions of businesses involve risks and uncertainties. our business strategy and long-term objectives may result in decisions to dispose of assets or businesses. the disposition of assets or businesses can be highly uncertain. in june 2006 we announced our intention to divest the principal businesses of our power systems operating segment and on november 7, 2006, we announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell these businesses to baldor electric company. the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approval. any failures or delays in satisfying closing conditions for this divestiture or difficulties in re-deploying the proceeds to minimize the dilutive effect of the sale could have an adverse effect on our ability to execute on our strategy. our reliance on third party suppliers creates certain risks and uncertainties. our manufacturing processes require that we purchase a high volume of equipment, components and materials from third party suppliers. our reliance on these suppliers involves certain risks, including: the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates or other factors; poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; and a shortage of components or materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and delivery capabilities, which could reduce sales and profitability. 8 any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues. potential liabilities and costs relating to environmental remediation could adversely affect our business. our operations, both in the united states and abroad, are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility for the cleanup or other remediation of contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future as well, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. the inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities related to our current and divested businesses could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. in connection with the divestiture of certain businesses in prior years, we retained tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds for periods before the divestitures. as a result, from time to time, we may be required to make payments related to tax matters associated with those divested businesses. natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations could harm our business. natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the united states and other governments in response to such events could cause damage or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers, or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or disrupt our supply chain. our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue or profitability. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and anticipate continuing to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost savings, and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames, if at all; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could cause us to incur debt, dilution, contingent liabilities, increased interest expense, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, or restructuring charges, could also occur as a result of acquisitions. 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. at september 30, 2006, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $219.0 million at a weighted average interest rate of 5.4 percent; we had no commercial paper or significant bank borrowings outstanding at september 30, 2005 or during 2005. the weighted average interest rate on the 2006 commercial paper borrowings was 4.8 percent. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. in 2006 and 2005, a 10 percent increase in average market interest rates would not have had a significant effect on our results of operations. at september 30, 2006 we had $219.0 million of unsecured commercial paper obligations outstanding with maturities of three days. as these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $748.2 million at september 30, 2006 and $748.2 million at september 30, 2005. the fair value of this debt was $804.2 million at september 30, 2006 and $826.2 million at september 30, 2005. the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners equity. in september 2002, we entered into an interest rate swap contract that effectively converted our $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15% notes, payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based on six-month libor. the floating rate was 8.02 percent at september 30, 2006. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates would not be significant to the overall fair value of the swap or our results of operations. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in foreign currencies. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage our exposure on transactions denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. in addition, we enter into contracts to hedge certain forecasted intercompany transactions expected to occur within the next three years. contracts are executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. we do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to united states dollars. a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value in earnings immediately. at september 30, 2006 and 2005, we had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily consisting of contracts relating to the euro, british pound sterling, south korean won and swiss franc. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. 31 the following table indicates the total u.s. dollar equivalents of net transactional foreign exchange exposure related to (short) long contracts outstanding by currency: september 30, 2006 2005 euro $ (399.8 ) $ (482.0 ) british pound (35.7 ) (42.7 ) south korean won (21.5 ) (19.0 ) swiss franc 12.7 46.0 other 1.5 10.3 total $ (442.8 ) $ (487.4 ) all of the contracts included in the table above will have offsetting effects from actual transactions that have occurred or will occur in the future. we designated certain of these contracts related to intercompany transactions forecasted to occur through november 2009 as cash flow hedges under sfas 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . the remaining foreign exchange contracts offset actual underlying receivables and payables in our consolidated balance sheet. 32risk factors risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. our products and services are designed to meet our customers needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce manufacturing business risk. the company was incorporated in delaware in 1996 in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, the former rockwell international corporation (ric) contributed all of its businesses, other than the a d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. on january 31, 2007, we divested our dodge mechanical and reliance electric motors and motor repair services businesses. these were the principal businesses of our former power systems operating segment. we sold these businesses to baldor electric company (baldor) for $1.8 billion, comprised of $1.75 billion in cash and approximately 1.6 million shares of baldor common stock. during 2007, we reported an after-tax gain on the sale of $868.2 million ($5.39 per diluted share). the results of operations and gain on sale of these businesses are reported in income from discontinued operations in the financial statements for all periods presented. 2 table of contents as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 2, 2010 (the 2010 proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture software and control products solutions. in 2009, our total sales were $4.3 billion. financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2009, is contained under the caption results of operations in md a, and in note 18 in the financial statements. our architecture software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio, and our control products solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments conduct business in north america, europe, middle east and africa, asia pacific and latin america. architecture software our architecture software operating segment recorded sales of $1.7 billion (40 percent of our total sales) in 2009. the architecture software segment contains all of the elements of our integrated control and information architecture capable of controlling the customer plant floor and connecting with their manufacturing enterprise. architecture software has a broad portfolio of products, including: control platforms that perform multiple control disciplines and monitoring of applications, including discrete, batch, continuous process, drives control, motion control and machine safety control. our platform products include controllers, electronic operator interface devices, electronic input/output devices, communication and networking products, industrial computers and condition-based monitoring systems. the information-enabled logix controllers provide integrated multi-discipline control that is modular and scaleable. software products that include configuration and visualization software used to operate and supervise control platforms, advanced process control software and manufacturing execution software (mes) that addresses information needs between the factory floor and a customer enterprise business system. examples of mes applications are production scheduling, asset management, tracking, genealogy and manufacturing business intelligence. other architecture software products, including rotary and linear motion control products, sensors and machine safety components. the major competitors of our architecture software operating segment include siemens ag, mitsubishi corp., abb ltd, honeywell international inc., schneider electric sa and emerson electric co. architecture software products are marketed primarily under the allen-bradley , a-b , rockwell software and factorytalk brand names. major markets served include food and beverage, automotive, oil and gas, metals, mining, home and personal care and life sciences. 3 table of contents control products solutions our control products solutions operating segment recorded 2009 sales of $2.6 billion (60 percent of our total sales). the control products solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products with the customer support and application knowledge necessary to implement an automation or information solution on the plant floor. this comprehensive portfolio includes: low voltage and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, ac/dc variable frequency drives, contactors, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays and timers and condition sensors. value-added packaged solutions, including configured drives, motor control centers and custom-engineered panels for original equipment manufacturer (oem) and end-user applications. automation and information solutions, including custom-engineered hardware and software systems for discrete, process, motion, safety, drives and manufacturing information applications. services designed to help maximize a customer automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including multi-vendor customer technical support and repair, asset management, training and predictive and preventative maintenance. the major competitors of our control products solutions operating segment include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, honeywell international inc. and emerson electric co. control products solutions products are marketed primarily under the allen bradley , a-b and ics triplex brand names. major markets served include food and beverage, oil and gas, metals, mining, automotive, pulp and paper and life sciences. geographic information in 2009, sales to customers in the united states accounted for 51 percent of our total sales. our principal markets outside of the united states are in canada, china, the united kingdom, italy, and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside of the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 18 in the financial statements. competition depending on the product or service involved, our competitors range from large diversified businesses that sell products outside of industrial automation, to smaller companies that specialize in niche products and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, large installed base, established distribution network, quality of products and services, price and global presence. distribution in the united states and canada, we sell our products primarily through independent distributors that typically do not carry products that compete with allen-bradley products. we sell large systems and service offerings principally through a direct sales force, though opportunities are sometimes identified through distributors. outside the united states and canada, we sell products through a combination of direct sales and sales through distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were between 9 and 10 percent of our total sales. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $170.0 million, $191.3 million, and $166.9 million, respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2009, 2008 or 2007. 4 table of contents employees at september 30, 2009 we had approximately 19,000 employees. approximately 8,300 were employed in the united states, and, of these employees, about two percent were represented by various local or national unions. raw materials and supplies we purchase many items of equipment, components and materials used to produce our products from others. the raw materials essential to the conduct of each of our business segments generally are available at competitive prices. although we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog at september 30 was (in millions): 2009 2008 architecture software $ 130.6 $ 161.2 control products solutions 761.3 872.6 $ 891.9 $ 1,033.8 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2010 were approximately $73.2 million as of september 30, 2009. environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 17 in the financial statements. see also item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company name and its registered trademark rockwell automation is important to each of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as allen-bradley , a-b and ics triplex tm for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software products. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. 5 table of contents available information we maintain an internet site at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the securities and exchange commission (sec). all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov. our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available at our internet site. these guidelines and charters are also available in print to any shareowner upon request. the information contained on and linked from our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. the certifications of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer required pursuant to sections 302 and 906 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 are included as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k and were included as exhibits to each of our quarterly reports on form 10-q filed during 2009. our chief executive officer certified to the new york stock exchange (nyse) on march 4, 2009 pursuant to section 303a.12 of the nyse listing standards that he was not aware of any violation by the company of the nyse corporate governance listing standards as of that date. item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance, and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. many of our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. we can mitigate these risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process is a company wide initiative that is designed with the intent of prioritizing risks and giving risks appropriate consideration. we use the integrated risk framework of the committee of sponsoring organizations (coso) to assess, manage, and monitor risks. a council of senior executives prioritizes identified risks based on the severity and likelihood of each risk and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to mitigate risks, where possible. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews identified risks deemed most significant. the audit committee also reviews major financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and seek to control them. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach and in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, these and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. we generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. approximately 49 percent of our revenues in 2009 were outside of the u.s. future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on growth in our non-u.s. sales. numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-u.s. operations. these risks and uncertainties include political and economic instability, changes in laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. international transactions may also involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs, including risks of non-compliance with u.s. and local laws affecting our activities abroad. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. while these factors and their impacts are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. 6 table of contents a global recession, adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in additional decreases in our revenues and profitability. recent global economic events, including the tightening of credit markets and the failures or material deteriorations of financial institutions and other entities, have resulted in a global recession. if these conditions continue or worsen, we could experience additional declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of global or regional industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows or credit markets tighten, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. information technology infrastructure failures could disrupt our business. we depend heavily on our information technology (it) infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. if we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, a problem with the functioning of an important it application, a breach of security or an intentional disruption of our it systems, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. we are implementing a global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that will redesign and deploy new processes, organization structures and a common information system over a period of several years. significant roll-outs of the system occurred at our u.s. locations and certain locations in mexico and europe in 2007 to 2009, and are scheduled to continue at additional locations in 2010 and beyond. as we implement the erp system, the new system may not perform as expected. this could have an adverse effect on our business. there are inherent risks in our growing solutions businesses. risks inherent in the sale of systems and solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the efficiency and quality of our subcontractors. if we are unable to control, manage, and mitigate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on product performance, quality, integrated systems and applications that address our customers business challenges, pricing and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion and lower revenues and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. 7 table of contents a disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our revenues. in the united states and canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales is through a limited number of distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales is also through a limited number of distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to the existing channel could adversely affect our revenues. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims) could increase our costs. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment and contract matters. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. intellectual property infringement claims could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we regularly provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the loss of patents or licenses used in principal portions of our business may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. we rely on vendors to supply raw materials, including commodities, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. our manufacturing processes require that we buy a high volume of equipment, components and raw materials, including commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers of these raw materials involves certain risks, including: poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; we may not be able recover any increase in costs for these purchases through price increases to our customers; and a shortage of components, commodities or other materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues. 8 table of contents potential liabilities and costs for environmental remediation could reduce our profits. our operations, both in the united states and abroad, are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. claims by taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue with our initiative to invest in actions to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 9 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $36.4 million and a liability of $28.5 million at september 30, 2009. we enter into these contracts with global financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. we do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to u.s. dollars. in 2009, the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar versus foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our revenues and results of operations, while in 2008 the relative weakening of the u.s. dollar had a favorable impact. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to 2009 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $15 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive (loss) income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value in earnings immediately. the ineffective portion was not significant in 2009 and 2008. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. 36 table of contents the following table indicates the u.s. dollar equivalent notional amounts by contractual maturity dates and related weighted average contract exchange rates for our foreign currency forward exchange contracts outstanding at september 30, 2009 (in millions, except for rates): weighted notional amounts average maturing in contract rate 2010 2011 buy u.s. dollar / sell euro 1.3632 $ 93.5 $ 51.0 buy u.s. dollar/ sell british pound sterling 1.8318 49.6 61.7 buy british pound sterling / sell u.s. dollar 0.5957 43.6 61.7 buy euro / sell british pound sterling 1.1252 72.3 24.0 buy swiss franc / sell canadian dollar 1.0074 87.0 buy swiss franc / sell euro 1.5006 70.6 15.4 buy swiss franc / sell u.s. dollar 1.0905 29.4 15.0 buy canadian dollar / sell swiss franc 0.9606 33.4 buy swiss franc / sell british pound sterling 1.7172 30.4 other various 163.8 total $ 673.6 $ 228.8 all of the contracts included in the table above will have offsetting effects from actual transactions that have occurred or will occur in the future. we designated certain of these contracts related to third-party sales or intercompany transactions forecasted to occur through june 2011 as cash flow hedges under u.s. gaap. the remaining foreign exchange contracts offset actual underlying receivables and payables in our consolidated balance sheet. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. we had no outstanding commercial paper borrowings at september 30, 2009; at september 30, 2008, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $100.0 million with remaining maturities of six days at a weighted average interest rate of 2.2 percent. the weighted average interest rate on our commercial paper borrowings was 0.6 percent during 2009 and 2.9 percent during 2008. as these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. in 2009 and 2008, a 100 percent increase in average market interest rates would have increased our interest expense by $0.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively. we use a 100 percent hypothetical fluctuation as our actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2008 and 2009. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $904.7 million at september 30, 2009 and $904.4 million at september 30, 2008. the fair value of this debt was $992.0 million at september 30, 2009 and $883.0 million at september 30, 2008. the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners equity. 37 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors for more information. 2 table of contents item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. our products and services are designed to meet our customers needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce manufacturing business risk. the company was incorporated in delaware in 1996 in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. we divested our dodge mechanical and reliance electric motors and motor repair services businesses in 2007. these were the principal businesses of our former power systems operating segment. the results of operations of these businesses are reported in income from discontinued operations in the financial statements for all periods presented. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 1, 2011 (the 2011 proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. 3 table of contents operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture software and control products solutions. in 2010, our total sales were $4.9 billion. financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2010, is contained under the caption results of operations in md a, and in note 18 in the financial statements. our architecture software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio, and our control products solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments conduct business globally. products for both segments are marketed primarily under the allen-bradley , a-b , rockwell software , ics triplex and factorytalk brand names. major markets served by both segments include food and beverage, transportation, oil and gas, metals, mining, home and personal care, pulp and paper and life sciences. architecture software our architecture software operating segment recorded sales of $2.1 billion (44 percent of our total sales) in 2010. the architecture software segment contains all of the hardware, software and communication components of our integrated control and information architecture capable of controlling the customer industrial processes and connecting with their manufacturing enterprise. architecture software has a broad portfolio of products, including: control platforms that perform multiple control disciplines and monitoring of applications, including discrete, batch and continuous process, drives control, motion control and machine safety control. products include controllers, electronic operator interface devices, electronic input/output devices, communication and networking products and industrial computers. the information-enabled logix controllers provide integrated multi-discipline control that is modular and scalable. software products that include configuration and visualization software used to operate and supervise control platforms, advanced process control software and manufacturing execution software (mes) that enables customers to improve manufacturing productivity and meet regulatory requirements. examples of mes applications are production scheduling, asset management, tracking, genealogy and manufacturing business intelligence. other products, including rotary and linear motion control products, sensors and machine safety components. the major competitors of our architecture software operating segment include siemens ag, mitsubishi corp., abb ltd, honeywell international inc., schneider electric sa and emerson electric co. control products solutions our control products solutions operating segment recorded 2010 sales of $2.8 billion (56 percent of our total sales). the control products solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products, application knowledge and project management necessary to implement an automation or information solution on the plant floor and total life-cycle customer support and maintenance. this comprehensive portfolio includes: low and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, ac/dc variable frequency drives, contactors, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays, timers and condition sensors. solutions ranging from value-added packaged solutions such as configured drives and motor control centers to automation and information solutions where we provide design and integration for custom-engineered hardware and software systems primarily for manufacturing applications. services designed to help maximize a customer automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including multi-vendor customer technical support and repair, asset management, training and predictive and preventative maintenance. the major competitors of our control products solutions operating segment include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, honeywell international inc. and emerson electric co. 4 table of contents geographic information in 2010, sales to customers in the united states accounted for 51 percent of our total sales. outside the united states, we sell in every region. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in canada, china, italy, the united kingdom and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside of the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 18 in the financial statements. competition depending on the product or service involved, our competitors range from large diversified businesses that sell products outside of industrial automation, to smaller companies that specialize in niche products and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, installed base, distribution network, quality of products and services, global presence and price. distribution in the united states and canada, we sell our products, solutions and services primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. outside the united states and canada, we sell products, solutions and services through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. globally, our independent distributors typically do not carry products that compete with allen-bradley products. sales to our largest distributor in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $198.9 million, $170.0 million, and $191.3 million, respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2010, 2009 or 2008. employees at september 30, 2010 we had approximately 19,000 employees. approximately 8,000 were employed in the united states. raw materials and supplies we purchase many items of equipment, components and materials used to produce our products from others. the raw materials essential to the conduct of each of our business segments generally are available at competitive prices. although we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog at september 30 was (in millions): 2010 2009 architecture software $ 140.6 $ 130.6 control products solutions 921.0 761.3 $ 1,061.6 $ 891.9 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2011 were approximately $117.0 million as of september 30, 2010. 5 table of contents environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 17 in the financial statements. see also item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley and a-b are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as ics triplex tm for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software products. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the securities and exchange commission (sec). all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available at our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 6 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process uses the integrated risk framework of the committee of sponsoring organizations (coso) to assess, manage, and monitor risks. we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoiding risks. we can mitigate these risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. approximately 49 percent of our revenues in 2010 were outside of the u.s. future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on growth in our international sales. numerous risks and uncertainties affect our international operations as international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks. these risks and uncertainties include political and economic instability, compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. while these factors and their impacts are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification, labeling and customer requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative or regulatory proposals. an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our business and operating results would be adversely affected. 7 table of contents adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our revenues and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows or credit markets tighten, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. information technology infrastructure failures could disrupt our business. we depend heavily on our information technology (it) infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. if we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, a problem with the functioning of an important it application, a breach of security or an intentional disruption of our it systems, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. we are implementing a global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that is resulting in redesigned new processes, organization structures and a common information system. significant roll-outs of the system occurred at our u.s. locations and certain locations in mexico and europe in 2007 to 2010, and are scheduled to continue at additional locations in 2011 and beyond. as we continue to implement new systems, they may not perform as expected. this could have an adverse effect on our business. there are inherent risks in our solutions businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the quality of our subcontractors. if we are unable to control, manage, and mitigate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, product performance, quality of our products and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion, lower revenues and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. a disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our revenues. in the united states and canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to our existing distribution channel could adversely affect our revenues. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events. 8 table of contents potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment, contract matters and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims being brought against us. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. our operations are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. we rely on vendors to supply equipment and components, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. our manufacturing processes require that we buy equipment and components which may include computer chips and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers of these items involves certain risks, including: poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; we may not be able to recover any increase in costs for these purchases through price increases to our customers; and a shortage of components, commodities or other materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues. 9 table of contents we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. claims by taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue to invest in initiatives to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel while appropriately managing costs related to employee benefits. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and heath care benefits. the amount of expenses we record for our defined benefit pension plans depends on factors such as changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets. significant decreases in market interest rates or the value of plan assets would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits continue to increase as well. increasing employee benefit costs or the failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $28.2 million and a liability of $20.4 million at september 30, 2010. we enter into these contracts with global financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. we do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to u.s. dollars. in 2010, the relative weakening of the u.s. dollar versus foreign currencies had a favorable impact on our revenues and results of operations, while in 2009 the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar had an unfavorable impact. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to 2010 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $15 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value in earnings immediately. the ineffective portion was not significant in 2010 and 2009. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. 38 table of contents interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. we had no outstanding commercial paper or bank borrowings at september 30, 2010 and 2009. the weighted average interest rate on our commercial paper borrowings was 0.6 percent during 2009. due to the low level of variable-rate borrowings in 2010 and 2009, interest rate changes would not have had a material impact on interest expense. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $904.9 million at september 30, 2010 and $904.7 million at september 30, 2009. the fair value of this debt was $1,073.8 million at september 30, 2010 and $992.0 million at september 30, 2009. the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners equity. 39 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors for more information. 2 table of contents item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. our products and services are designed to meet our customers needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce manufacturing business risk. the company was incorporated in delaware in 1996 in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. we divested our dodge mechanical and reliance electric motors and motor repair services businesses in 2007. these were the principal businesses of our former power systems operating segment. the results of operations of these businesses are reported in income from discontinued operations in the financial statements for all periods presented. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 7, 2012 (the 2012 proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. 3 table of contents operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture software and control products solutions. in 2011, our total sales were $6.0 billion. financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2011, is contained under the caption results of operations in md a, and in note 18 in the financial statements. our architecture software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio and singapore, and our control products solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments conduct business globally. products, solutions and services of both segments are marketed primarily under the rockwell automation , allen-bradley , a-b and rockwell software brand names. major markets served by both segments include food and beverage, transportation, oil and gas, metals, mining, home and personal care, pulp and paper and life sciences. architecture software our architecture software operating segment recorded sales of $2.6 billion (43 percent of our total sales) in 2011. the architecture software segment contains all of the hardware, software and communication components of our integrated control and information architecture capable of controlling the customer industrial processes and connecting with their manufacturing enterprise. architecture software has a broad portfolio of products, including: control platforms that perform multiple control disciplines and monitoring of applications, including discrete, batch and continuous process, drives control, motion control and machine safety control. products include controllers, electronic operator interface devices, electronic input/output devices, communication and networking products and industrial computers. the information-enabled logix controllers provide integrated multi-discipline control that is modular and scalable. software products that include configuration and visualization software used to operate and supervise control platforms, advanced process control software and manufacturing execution software (mes) that enables customers to improve manufacturing productivity and meet regulatory requirements. other products, including rotary and linear motion control products, sensors and machine safety components. control products solutions our control products solutions operating segment recorded 2011 sales of $3.4 billion (57 percent of our total sales). the control products solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products, application expertise and project management capabilities. this comprehensive portfolio includes: low and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, ac/dc variable frequency drives, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays, timers and condition sensors. value-added solutions ranging from packaged solutions such as configured drives and motor control centers to automation and information solutions where we provide design, integration and start-up services for custom-engineered hardware and software systems primarily for manufacturing applications. services designed to help maximize a customer automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including multi-vendor customer technical support and repair, asset management, training and predictive and preventative maintenance. 4 table of contents geographic information in 2011, sales to customers in the united states accounted for 49 percent of our total sales. outside the united states, we sell in every region. the largest sales outside of the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in canada, china, italy, the united kingdom and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside of the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 18 in the financial statements. competition depending on the product or service involved, our competitors range from large diversified corporations with business interests outside of industrial automation, to smaller companies that specialize in niche industrial automation products and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, installed base, distribution network, quality of products and services, global presence and price. our major competitors of both segments include siemens ag, abb ltd, honeywell international inc., schneider electric sa and emerson electric co. distribution we sell our products, solutions and services through both independent distributors that typically do not carry products that compete with allen-bradley products, and our direct sales force. in the united states, canada and certain other countries, we sell primarily through the independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in the remaining countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 70% of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $254.4 million, $198.9 million, and $170.0 million, respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2011, 2010 or 2009. employees at september 30, 2011 we had approximately 21,000 employees. approximately 8,000 were employed in the united states. raw materials and supplies we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. although we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog at september 30 was (in millions): 2011 2010 architecture software $ 160.3 $ 140.6 control products solutions 1,016.8 921.0 $ 1,177.1 $ 1,061.6 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2012 were approximately $107.2 million as of september 30, 2011. 5 table of contents environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 17 in the financial statements and in item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system tm are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as ics triplex tm for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 6 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process uses the integrated risk framework of the committee of sponsoring organizations (coso) to assess, manage, and monitor risks. we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoiding risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our revenues and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns linger, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. we generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. approximately 51 percent of our revenues in 2011 were outside of the u.s. future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on growth in our international sales. numerous risks and uncertainties affect our international operations. these risks and uncertainties include increased financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability, compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification, labeling and customer requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions. 7 table of contents an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline. failures or security breaches of our products or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) both in our products, solutions and services for customers and in our enterprise it infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. government agencies and security experts have warned about growing risks of hackers, cyber-criminals and other attacks targeting every type of it system including industrial control systems such as those we sell and serve and corporate enterprise it systems. our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise it systems may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs that access them. these attacks have sometimes been successful. despite the precautions we take, an intrusion or infection of software, hardware or a system that we sold or serviced could result in the disruption of our customers business, loss of proprietary or confidential information, or injuries to people or property. similarly, an attack on our enterprise it system could result in theft or disclosure of trade secrets or other intellectual property or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. any such events could have an adverse impact on revenue, harm our reputation, cause us to incur legal liability and cause us to incur increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. we are implementing a global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that is resulting in redesigned processes, organization structures and a common information system. significant roll-outs of the system occurred at our u.s. locations and certain non-u.s. locations in 2007 to 2011, and are scheduled to continue at additional locations in 2012 and beyond. as we continue to implement new systems, they may not perform as expected. this could have an adverse effect on our business. there are inherent risks in our solutions businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the quality of our subcontractors. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, product performance, quality of our products and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion, lower revenues and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. 8 table of contents intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. claims by taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel while appropriately managing costs related to employee benefits. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and heath care benefits. the amount of expenses we record for our defined benefit pension plans depends on factors such as changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets. significant decreases in market interest rates or the value of plan assets would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits continue to increase as well. increasing employee benefit costs or the failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment, contract matters and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. our operations are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. 9 table of contents a disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our revenues. in the united states and canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to our existing distribution channel could adversely affect our revenues. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events. we rely on vendors to supply equipment and components, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. our business requires that we buy equipment and components, including finished products, which may include computer chips and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers of these items involves certain risks, including: poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; we may not be able to recover any increase in costs for these purchases through price increases to our customers; and a shortage of components, commodities or other materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues. our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue to invest in initiatives to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $29.6 million and a liability of $7.7 million at september 30, 2011. we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. we do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to u.s. dollars. in 2011 and 2010, the relative weakening of the u.s. dollar versus foreign currencies had a favorable impact on our revenues and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to 2011 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $15 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value in earnings immediately. the ineffective portion was not significant in 2011 and 2010. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. 38 table of contents interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. we had no outstanding commercial paper or bank borrowings at september 30, 2011 and 2010. in october 2011, we borrowed $275 million in commercial paper in order to partially fund a $300 million discretionary contribution to our u.s. qualified pension trust. due to the low level of variable-rate borrowings in 2011 and 2010, interest rate changes would not have had a material impact on interest expense. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $905.0 million at september 30, 2011 and $904.9 million at september 30, 2011. the fair value of this debt was $1,125.4 million at september 30, 2011 and $1,073.8 million at september 30, 2010. the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners equity. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 6 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. our products and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce manufacturing business risk. the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. 2 table of contents whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 5, 2013 (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. in 2012 , our total sales were $6.3 billion . financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2012 , is contained under the caption results of operations in md&amp;a, and in note 17 in the financial statements. our architecture &amp; software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio and singapore, and our control products &amp; solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments include transportation, oil and gas, metals, mining, food and beverage, and life sciences. architecture &amp; software our architecture &amp; software operating segment recorded sales of $2.7 billion ( 42 percent of our total sales) in 2012 . the architecture &amp; software segment contains all of the hardware, software and communication components of our integrated control and information architecture capable of controlling the customer's industrial processes and connecting with their manufacturing enterprise. architecture &amp; software has a broad portfolio of products, including: control platforms that perform multiple control disciplines and monitoring of applications, including discrete, batch and continuous process, drives control, motion control and machine safety control. products include controllers, electronic operator interface devices, electronic input/output devices, communication and networking products and industrial computers. the information-enabled logix controllers provide integrated multi-discipline control that is modular and scalable. software products that include configuration and visualization software used to operate and supervise control platforms, advanced process control software and manufacturing execution software (mes) that enables customers to improve manufacturing productivity and meet regulatory requirements. other products, including rotary and linear motion control products, sensors and machine safety components. control products &amp; solutions our control products &amp; solutions operating segment recorded 2012 sales of $3.6 billion ( 58 percent of our total sales). the control products &amp; solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products, application expertise and project management capabilities. this comprehensive portfolio includes: low and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, ac/dc variable frequency drives, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays, timers and condition sensors. value-added solutions ranging from packaged solutions such as configured drives and motor control centers to automation and information solutions where we provide design, integration and start-up services for custom-engineered hardware and software systems primarily for manufacturing applications. services designed to help maximize a customer's automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including technical support and repair, asset management, training and predictive and preventative maintenance. geographic information in 2012 , sales to customers in the united states accounted for 49 percent of our total sales. outside the united states, we sell in every region. the largest sales outside of the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in canada, china, the united kingdom, italy, germany, and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside of the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 17 in the financial statements. 3 table of contents competition depending on the product or service involved, our competitors range from large diversified corporations that also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that specialize in niche industrial automation products and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, installed base, distribution network, quality of products and services, global presence and price. our major competitors of both segments include siemens ag, abb ltd, honeywell international inc., schneider electric sa and emerson electric co. distribution in the united states, canada and certain other countries, we sell primarily through the independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in the remaining countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 70 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. the independent distributors typically do not carry products that compete with allen-bradley products. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $259.1 million , $254.4 million , and $198.9 million , respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2012 , 2011 or 2010 . employees at september 30, 2012 , we had approximately 22,000 employees. approximately 8,500 were employed in the united states. raw materials and supplies we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. although we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog at september 30 was (in millions): 2012 2011 architecture &amp; software $ 167.3 $ 160.3 control products &amp; solutions 962.6 1,016.8 $ 1,129.9 $ 1,177.1 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2013 were approximately $70.8 million as of september 30, 2012 . environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 16 in the financial statements and in item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. 4 table of contents the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as ics triplex for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k 5 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process uses the integrated risk framework of the committee of sponsoring organizations (coso) to assess, manage, and monitor risks. we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoiding risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our revenues and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns linger, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. we generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. approximately 51 percent of our revenues in 2012 were made outside of the u.s. future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on growth in our international sales. numerous risks and uncertainties affect our international operations. these risks and uncertainties include increased financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability, compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, employment regulations, repatriation of earnings and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification, labeling and customer requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions. 6 table of contents an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline. failures or security breaches of our products or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) both in our products, solutions and services for customers and in our enterprise it infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. government agencies and security experts have warned about growing risks of hackers, cyber-criminals and other attacks targeting every type of it system including industrial control systems such as those we sell and service and corporate enterprise it systems. our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise it systems may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs. these attacks have sometimes been successful. despite the precautions we take, an intrusion or infection of software, hardware or a system that we sold or serviced could result in the disruption of our customers' business, loss of proprietary or confidential information, or injuries to people or property. similarly, an attack on our enterprise it system could result in theft or disclosure of trade secrets or other intellectual property or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. any such events could have an adverse impact on revenue, harm our reputation, cause us to incur legal liability and cause us to incur increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. we are implementing a global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that is resulting in redesigned processes, organization structures and a common information system. significant roll-outs of the system occurred at our u.s. locations and certain non-u.s. locations in 2007 to 2012 , and are scheduled to continue at additional locations in 2013 and beyond. as we continue to implement new systems, they may not perform as expected. this could have an adverse effect on our business. there are inherent risks in our solutions businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, product performance, quality of our products and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion, lower revenues and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. 7 table of contents intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. claims by taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel while appropriately managing costs related to employee benefits. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the amount of expenses we record for our defined benefit pension plans depends on factors such as changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets. significant decreases in market interest rates or the value of plan assets would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits continue to increase as well. increasing employee benefit costs or the failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the products, services and solutions we sell, employment, contract matters and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. our operations are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. 8 table of contents a disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our revenues. in the united states and canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to our existing distribution channel could adversely affect our revenues. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events. we rely on vendors to supply equipment and components, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. our business requires that we buy equipment and components, including finished products, which may include computer chips and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers of these items involves certain risks, including: poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; we may not be able to recover any increase in costs for these purchases through price increases to our customers; and a shortage of components, commodities or other materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues. our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue to invest in initiatives to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business' customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 9 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $12.4 million and a liability of $23.0 million at september 30, 2012 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2012 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our revenues and results of operations, while in 2011 the relative weakening of the u.s. dollar had a favorable impact. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar further strengthens relative to 2012 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $10 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. the ineffective portion was not significant in 2012 and 2011 . a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. commercial paper borrowings outstanding at september 30, 2012 were $157.0 million with remaining maturities of 6 days at a weighted average interest rate of 0.27 percent . we had no outstanding commercial paper or bank borrowings at september 30, 2011. as these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. in 2012, a 100 basis point increase in average market interest rates would have increased our interest expense by $2.7 million. due to the low level of variable-rate borrowings in 2011, interest rate changes would not have had a material impact on interest expense. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $905.0 million at september 30, 2012 and 2011 . the fair value of this debt was $1,187.9 million at september 30, 2012 and $1,125.4 million at september 30, 2011 . the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 6 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. our products and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce manufacturing business risk. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. 2 table of contents whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 4, 2014 (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. in 2013 , our total sales were $6.35 billion . financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2013 , is contained under the caption results of operations in md&amp;a, and in note 17 in the financial statements. our architecture &amp; software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio and singapore, and our control products &amp; solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments include transportation, oil and gas, metals, mining, food and beverage, and life sciences. architecture &amp; software our architecture &amp; software operating segment recorded sales of $2.7 billion ( 42 percent of our total sales) in 2013 . the architecture &amp; software segment contains all of the hardware, software and communication components of our integrated control and information architecture capable of controlling the customer's industrial processes and connecting with their manufacturing enterprise. architecture &amp; software has a broad portfolio of products, including: control platforms that perform multiple control disciplines and monitoring of applications, including discrete, batch and continuous process, drives control, motion control and machine safety control. products include controllers, electronic operator interface devices, electronic input/output devices, communication and networking products and industrial computers. the information-enabled logix controllers provide integrated multi-discipline control that is modular and scalable. software products that include configuration and visualization software used to operate and supervise control platforms, advanced process control software and manufacturing execution software (mes) that enables customers to improve manufacturing productivity and meet regulatory requirements. other products, including rotary and linear motion control products, sensors and machine safety components. control products &amp; solutions our control products &amp; solutions operating segment recorded sales of $3.7 billion ( 58 percent of our total sales) in 2013 . the control products &amp; solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products, application expertise and project management capabilities. this comprehensive portfolio includes: low and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, ac/dc variable frequency drives, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays, timers and condition sensors. value-added solutions ranging from packaged solutions such as configured drives and motor control centers to automation and information solutions where we provide design, integration and start-up services for custom-engineered hardware and software systems primarily for manufacturing applications. services designed to help maximize a customer's automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including technical support and repair, asset management, training and predictive and preventative maintenance. geographic information in 2013 , sales to customers in the united states accounted for 50 percent of our total sales. outside the united states, we sell in every region. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in canada, china, the united kingdom, italy, mexico, germany, and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 17 in the financial statements. 3 table of contents competition depending on the product or service involved, our competitors range from large diversified corporations that also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that specialize in niche industrial automation products and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, installed base, distribution network, quality of products and services, global presence and price. our major competitors of both segments include siemens ag, abb ltd, honeywell international inc., schneider electric sa and emerson electric co. distribution in the united states, canada and certain other countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in the remaining countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 70 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. the independent distributors typically do not carry products that compete with allen-bradley products. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 was $260.7 million , $247.6 million , and $243.9 million , respectively. while not material to previously issued financial statements, we corrected certain amounts previously included in our classification of research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2012 and 2011. as a result, our previously reported research and development spending amounts for the years ended september 30, 2012 and 2011 decreased by $11.5 million and $10.5 million , respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2013 , 2012 or 2011 . employees at september 30, 2013 , we had approximately 22,000 employees. approximately 8,500 were employed in the united states. raw materials and supplies we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog at september 30 was (in millions): 2013 2012 architecture &amp; software $ 183.8 $ 181.4 control products &amp; solutions 1,091.8 1,016.4 $ 1,275.6 $ 1,197.8 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2014 were approximately $136 million as of september 30, 2013 . environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 16 in the financial statements and in item 3. legal proceedings . 4 table of contents patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as ics triplex for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the "investor relations" link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 5 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process uses the integrated risk framework of the committee of sponsoring organizations (coso) to assess, manage, and monitor risks. we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoiding risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our sales and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns linger, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. a substantial portion of our sales are to customers outside the u.s. and we are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. we do business in more than 80 countries around the world. approximately 50 percent of our sales in 2013 were to customers outside the u.s. in addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located in many places around the world. the future success of our business depends in large part on growth in our sales in non-u.s. markets. our global operations are subject to numerous financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability; prevalence of corruption in certain countries; enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, product content and performance, employment and repatriation of earnings. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification, labeling and customer requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions. 6 table of contents an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline. failures or security breaches of our products or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) both in our products, solutions and services for customers and in our enterprise it infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. government agencies and security experts have warned about growing risks of hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders and other actors targeting every type of it system including industrial control systems such as those we sell and service and corporate enterprise it systems. these threat actors may engage in fraud, theft of confidential or proprietary information, and sabotage. our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise it systems may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs. these attacks have sometimes been successful. despite the precautions we take, an intrusion or infection of software, hardware or a system that we sold or serviced could result in the disruption of our customers' business, loss of proprietary or confidential information, or injuries to people or property. similarly, an attack on our enterprise it system could result in theft or disclosure of trade secrets or other intellectual property or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. any such events could have an adverse impact on sales, harm our reputation and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. we are in the process of developing and directing the implementation of a common global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that is resulting in redesigned processes, organization structures, and a common information system all with the objective of improving internal control and our ability to manage and monitor our global operations. the implementations, which were initiated by rockwell automation inc., the u.s. parent company of our consolidated group, occurred in many locations in 2007 to 2013 , and are scheduled to continue into 2015. as the parent company continues to drive this implementation, the system and processes may not perform as expected or may require more time to implement. this could have an adverse effect on our business. there are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the performance and quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, we could incur cost overruns, liabilities, and other losses that would adversely affect our results of operations. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, product performance, quality of our products and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion, lower sales and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. 7 table of contents we face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. claims by taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel while appropriately managing costs related to employee benefits. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the amount of expenses we record for our defined benefit pension plans depends on factors such as changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets. significant decreases in market interest rates or the value of plan assets would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits continue to increase as well. increasing employee benefit costs or the failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the products, solutions and services we sell, employment, contract matters and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. 8 table of contents our operations are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. a disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our sales. in the united states and canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to our existing distribution channel could adversely affect our sales. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events. we rely on vendors to supply equipment, components and services, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. our business requires that we buy equipment, components and services including finished products, which may include computer chips and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; changes in the cost of these purchases due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; intellectual property risks such as ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; information security risks associated with providing confidential information to suppliers; and shortages of components, commodities or other materials, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of sales. we rely on strategic partners to expand our capabilities and to provide more complete automation solutions for our customers, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. we have relationships with industry-leading strategic partners that provide complementary technology, expertise and thought leadership to enable us to enhance automation solutions for our customers. if we fail to maintain or manage relationships with these third-party partner companies effectively, or these partners are unable or unwilling to perform as expected, our ability to execute our business strategy could be negatively affected. 9 table of contents our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue to invest in initiatives to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business' customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as sales increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $10.6 million and a liability of $11.7 million at september 30, 2013 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2013 and 2012 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar further strengthens relative to 2013 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $15 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. the ineffective portion was not significant in 2013 and 2012 . a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. commercial paper borrowings outstanding at september 30, 2013 were $179.0 million with remaining maturities of five days at a weighted average interest rate of 0.17 percent . commercial paper borrowings at september 30, 2012 were $157.0 million with remaining maturities of six days at a weighted average interest rate of 0.27 percent . as these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. in 2013 and 2012 , a 100 basis point increase in average market interest rates would have increased our interest expense by $2.1 million and $2.7 million, respectively. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $905.1 million at september 30, 2013 and $905.0 million at september 30, 2012 . the fair value of this debt was $1,072.2 million at september 30, 2013 and $1,187.9 million at september 30, 2012 . the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. 38 table of contentsrisk factors 6 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve competitive advantages for their businesses. our products and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce enterprise business risk. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. 2 table of contents whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 3, 2015 (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. in 2014 , our total sales were $6.62 billion . financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2014 , is contained under the caption results of operations in md&amp;a, and in note 15 in the financial statements. our architecture &amp; software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio, and our control products &amp; solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments include food and beverage, transportation, oil and gas, metals, mining, and life sciences. architecture &amp; software our architecture &amp; software operating segment recorded sales of $2.8 billion ( 43 percent of our total sales) in 2014 . the architecture &amp; software segment contains all of the hardware, software and communication components of our integrated control and information architecture capable of controlling the customer's industrial processes and connecting with their business enterprise. architecture &amp; software has a broad portfolio of products, including: control platforms that perform multiple control disciplines and monitoring of applications, including discrete, batch and continuous process, drives control, motion control and machine safety control. our platform products include controllers, electronic operator interface devices, electronic input/output devices, communication and networking products and industrial computers. the information-enabled logix controllers provide integrated multi-discipline control that is modular and scalable. software products that include configuration and visualization software used to operate and supervise control platforms, advanced process control software and manufacturing execution software (mes) that enables customers to improve manufacturing productivity and meet regulatory requirements. other products, including rotary and linear motion control products, sensors and machine safety components. control products &amp; solutions our control products &amp; solutions operating segment recorded sales of $3.8 billion ( 57 percent of our total sales) in 2014 . the control products &amp; solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products, application expertise and project management capabilities. this comprehensive portfolio includes: low and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, ac/dc variable frequency drives, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays, timers and condition sensors. value-added solutions ranging from packaged solutions such as configured drives and motor control centers to automation and information solutions where we provide design, integration and start-up services for custom-engineered hardware and software systems primarily for manufacturing applications. services designed to help maximize a customer's automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including technical support and repair, asset management, training, predictive and preventative maintenance, and safety and network consulting. geographic information in 2014 , sales to customers in the united states accounted for 52 percent of our total sales. outside the united states, we sell in every region. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in canada, china, the united kingdom, italy, mexico, germany, and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 15 in the financial statements. 3 table of contents competition our competitors range from large diversified corporations that also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that specialize in niche industrial automation products, solutions and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology differentiation, knowledge of customer applications, installed base, distribution network, quality of products and services, global presence and price. our major competitors of both segments include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, emerson electric co., mitsubishi electric corp. and honeywell international inc. distribution in the united states, canada and certain other countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in the remaining countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 70 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. the independent distributors typically do not carry products that compete with our products. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 was $290.1 million , $260.7 million and $247.6 million , respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2014 , 2013 or 2012 . employees at september 30, 2014 , we had approximately 22,500 employees. approximately 8,500 were employed in the united states. raw materials and supplies we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog at september 30 was (in millions): 2014 2013 architecture &amp; software $ 159.3 $ 183.8 control products &amp; solutions 1,074.8 1,091.8 $ 1,234.1 $ 1,275.6 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2015 were approximately $132 million as of september 30, 2014 . environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 14 in the financial statements and in item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. 4 table of contents the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as ics triplex for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the "investor relations" link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 5 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process uses the integrated risk framework of the committee of sponsoring organizations (coso) to assess, manage, and monitor risks. we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoiding risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our sales and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns linger, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. a substantial portion of our sales are to customers outside the u.s. and we are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. we do business in more than 80 countries around the world. approximately 48 percent of our sales in 2014 were to customers outside the u.s. in addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located in many places around the world. the future success of our business depends in large part on growth in our sales in non-u.s. markets. our global operations are subject to numerous financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability; prevalence of corruption in certain countries; enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, product content and performance, employment and repatriation of earnings. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification, labeling and customer requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions. our customers may also be required to comply with such legislative and regulatory requirements. changes in these requirements could impact demand for our products, solutions and services. 6 table of contents an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline. failures or security breaches of our products or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) both in our products, solutions and services for customers and in our enterprise it infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. government agencies and security experts have warned about growing risks of hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders and other actors targeting every type of it system including industrial control systems such as those we sell and service and corporate enterprise it systems. these actors may engage in fraud, theft of confidential or proprietary information, and sabotage. our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise it systems may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs. these attacks pose a risk to the security of the products, systems and networks of our customers, suppliers and third-party service providers, as well to the confidentiality of our information and the integrity and availability of our data. while we attempt to mitigate these risks through controls, due diligence, training, surveillance and other measures, we remain vulnerable to information security threats. despite the precautions we take, an intrusion or infection of software, hardware or a system that we sold or serviced could result in the disruption of our customers' business, loss of proprietary or confidential information, or injuries to people or property. similarly, an attack on our enterprise it system could result in theft or disclosure of trade secrets or other intellectual property or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. any such events could have an adverse impact on sales, harm our reputation and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. as the threats evolve and become more potent, we may incur additional costs to secure the products, services and solutions that we sell, as well as our data and infrastructure of networks and devices. we have nearly completed the process of developing and directing the implementation of a common global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that has resulted in redesigned processes, organization structures, and a common information system all with the objective of improving internal control and our ability to manage and monitor our global operations. the implementations, which were initiated by rockwell automation, inc., the u.s. parent company of our consolidated group, occurred in many locations from 2007 to 2014 . as the parent company completes this integration, the system and processes may not perform as expected. this could have an adverse effect on our business. there are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the performance and quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, we could incur cost overruns, liabilities, and other losses that would adversely affect our results of operations. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, product performance, quality of our products and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion and correspondingly lower sales and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. 7 table of contents we face the potential harms of natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, pandemics, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability, and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal expenses to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. claims from taxing authorities could have an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the uncertainty of how underlying facts may be construed, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our business success depends on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. competition for highly qualified management and technical personnel is particularly intense in emerging markets. the failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. increasing employee benefit costs could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the expenses we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit pension plans depend on factors such as changes in market interest rates, the value of plan assets, mortality assumptions and health care trend rates. significant unfavorable changes in these factors would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits depend on health care cost inflation. an inability to control costs related to employee and retiree benefits could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the products, solutions and services we sell, employment, contract matters and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. 8 table of contents our operations are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. a disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our sales. in the united states and canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to our existing distribution channel could adversely affect our sales. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events. we rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. our business requires that we buy equipment, components and services including finished products, which may include electronic components and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; changes in the cost of these purchases due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; intellectual property risks such as ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; information security risks associated with providing confidential information to suppliers; and shortages of components, commodities or other materials, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of sales. we rely on strategic partners to expand our capabilities and to provide more complete automation solutions for our customers, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. we have relationships with industry-leading strategic partners that provide complementary technology, expertise and thought leadership to enable us to enhance automation solutions for our customers. if we fail to maintain or manage relationships with these third-party partner companies effectively, or these partners are unable or unwilling to perform as expected, our ability to execute our business strategy could be negatively affected. 9 table of contents our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue to invest in initiatives to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business' customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as sales increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $21.6 million and a liability of $6.2 million at september 30, 2014 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2014 and 2013 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar further strengthens relative to 2014 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $29.7 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. the ineffective portion was not significant in 2014 and 2013 . a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. commercial paper borrowings outstanding at september 30, 2014 were $325.0 million with remaining maturities of seven days at a weighted average interest rate of 0.17 percent . commercial paper borrowings at september 30, 2013 were $179.0 million with remaining maturities of five days at a weighted average interest rate of 0.17 percent . as these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. in 2014 and 2013 , a 100 basis point increase in average market interest rates would have increased our interest expense by $2.8 million and $2.1 million, respectively. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $905.6 million at september 30, 2014 and $905.1 million at september 30, 2013 . the fair value of this debt was $1,119.4 million at september 30, 2014 and $1,072.2 million at september 30, 2013 . the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (rockwell automation or the company) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve competitive advantages for their businesses. our products, solutions and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce enterprise business risk. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. 2 table of contents as used herein, the terms we , us , our , rockwell automation , or the company include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 2, 2016 (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. in 2015 , our total sales were $6.3 billion . our architecture &amp; software operating segment recorded sales of $2.7 billion ( 44 percent of our total sales) in 2015 . our control products &amp; solutions operating segment recorded sales of $3.6 billion ( 56 percent of our total sales) in 2015 . our architecture &amp; software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio, and our control products &amp; solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments consist of consumer industries, including food and beverage, home and personal care and life sciences; transportation, including automotive and tire; and heavy industries, including oil and gas, mining and metals. additional information with respect to our operating segments, including a description of our operating segments and their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years ended september 30, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 is contained in note 15 in the financial statements and under the caption results of operations in md&amp;a. geographic information in 2015 , sales to customers in the united states accounted for 55 percent of our total sales. outside the united states, we sell in every region. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in canada, china, the united kingdom, mexico, italy, germany, and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 15 in the financial statements. competition our competitors range from large diversified corporations that also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that specialize in niche industrial automation products, solutions and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology differentiation, knowledge of customer applications, installed base, distribution network, quality of products, solutions and services, global presence and price. our major competitors of both segments include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, emerson electric co., mitsubishi electric corp. and honeywell international inc. distribution in the united states, canada and certain other countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in the remaining countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 70 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. the independent distributors typically do not carry products that compete with our products. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 was $307.3 million , $290.1 million and $260.7 million , respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2015 , 2014 or 2013 . employees at september 30, 2015 , we had approximately 22,500 employees. approximately 8,500 were employed in the united states. 3 table of contents raw materials we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog consists of (in millions): september 30, 2015 2014 architecture &amp; software $ 165.1 $ 159.3 control products &amp; solutions 999.5 1,074.8 $ 1,164.6 $ 1,234.1 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2016 were approximately $148 million as of september 30, 2015 . environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 14 in the financial statements and in item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as ics triplex for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the "investor relations" link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 4 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process uses the integrated risk framework in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) to assess, manage, and monitor risks. we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoiding risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee of the board of directors also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and could adversely affect us. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our sales and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns linger, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. a substantial portion of our sales are to customers outside the u.s. and we are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. we do business in more than 80 countries around the world. approximately 45 percent of our sales in 2015 were to customers outside the u.s. in addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located in many places around the world. the future success of our business depends in large part on growth in our sales in non-u.s. markets. our global operations are subject to numerous financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability; prevalence of corruption in certain countries; enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, product content and performance, employment and repatriation of earnings. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification, labeling and customer requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions. our customers may also be required to comply with such legislative and regulatory requirements. changes in these requirements could impact demand for our products, solutions and services. 5 table of contents an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline. failures or security breaches of our products or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) both in our products, solutions and services for customers and in our enterprise it infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. government agencies and security experts have warned about growing risks of hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders and other actors targeting every type of it system including industrial control systems such as those we sell and service and corporate enterprise it systems. these actors may engage in fraud, theft of confidential or proprietary information and sabotage. our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise it systems may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs. these attacks pose a risk to the security of the products, systems and networks of our customers, suppliers and third-party service providers, as well to the confidentiality of our information and the integrity and availability of our data. while we attempt to mitigate these risks through controls, due diligence, training, surveillance and other measures, we remain vulnerable to information security threats. despite the precautions we take, an intrusion or infection of software, hardware or a system that we sold or serviced could result in the disruption of our customers' business, loss of proprietary or confidential information, or injuries to people or property. similarly, an attack on our enterprise it system could result in theft or disclosure of trade secrets or other intellectual property or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. any such events could have an adverse impact on sales, harm our reputation and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. as the threats evolve and become more potent, we may incur additional costs to secure the products, solutions and services that we sell, as well as our data and infrastructure of networks and devices. there are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects and managing the performance and quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, we could incur cost overruns, liabilities and other losses that would adversely affect our results of operations. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, product performance, quality of our products, solutions and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products, solutions and services, we may experience price erosion and correspondingly lower sales and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, pandemics, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. 6 table of contents intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal expenses to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. claims from taxing authorities could have an adverse effect on our income tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the uncertainty of how underlying facts may be construed, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our business success depends on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. competition for highly qualified management and technical personnel is particularly intense in emerging markets. the failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. increasing employee benefit costs could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the expenses we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit pension plans depend on factors such as changes in market interest rates, the value of plan assets, mortality assumptions and health care trend rates. significant unfavorable changes in these factors would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits depend on health care cost inflation. an inability to control costs related to employee and retiree benefits could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the products, solutions and services we sell, employment, contract matters and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. our operations are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. 7 table of contents we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. a disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our sales. in the united states and canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to our existing distribution channel could adversely affect our sales. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events. we rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. our business requires that we buy equipment, components and services including finished products, which may include electronic components and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; changes in the cost of these purchases due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; intellectual property risks such as ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; information security risks associated with providing confidential information to suppliers; and shortages of components, commodities or other materials, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of sales. we rely on strategic partners to expand our capabilities and to provide more complete automation solutions for our customers, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. we have relationships with industry-leading strategic partners that provide complementary technology, expertise and thought leadership to enable us to enhance automation solutions for our customers. if we fail to maintain or manage relationships with these third-party partner companies effectively, or these partners are unable or unwilling to perform as expected, our ability to execute our business strategy could be negatively affected. our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products, solutions and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products, solutions and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue to invest in initiatives to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 8 table of contents risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business' customers and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as sales increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 9 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $54.6 million and a liability of $18.5 million at september 30, 2015 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2015 and 2014 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar further strengthens relative to 2015 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $13.6 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on these contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. there was no impact on earnings due to ineffective hedges in 2015 or 2014 . a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with the hedged exposures and related contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations are primarily comprised of commercial paper borrowings. there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at september 30, 2015 . at september 30, 2014 , commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $325.0 million , with a weighted average interest rate of 0.17 percent and weighted average maturity period of seven days . we have issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations as needed. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our short-term debt would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $1,500.9 million at september 30, 2015 and $900.4 million at september 30, 2014 . the fair value of this debt was $1,682.6 million at september 30, 2015 and $1,119.4 million at september 30, 2014 . the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in market interest rates would not be significant to the overall fair value of our long-term debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. in february 2015, we entered into interest rate swap contracts, which we designated as fair value hedges. these interest rate swaps effectively converted the $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.050% notes payable in march 2020 (2020 notes) and 2.875% notes payable in march 2025 (2025 notes) to floating rate debt, each at a rate based on three-month libor plus a fixed spread. the effective floating interest rates were 0.763 percent for the 2020 notes and 1.173 percent for the 2025 notes at september 30, 2015 . the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts at september 30, 2015 was a net unrealized gain of $5.4 million . a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our interest rate swaps would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. 38 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. ("rockwell automation" or "the company"), a leader in industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable . our products, solutions and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce enterprise business risk. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. 2 table of contents as used herein, the terms we , us , our , rockwell automation or the company include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 7, 2017 (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. in 2016 , our total sales were $5.88 billion . our architecture &amp; software operating segment recorded sales of $2.64 billion ( 45 percent of our total sales) in 2016 . our control products &amp; solutions operating segment recorded sales of $3.24 billion ( 55 percent of our total sales) in 2016 . our architecture &amp; software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio, and our control products &amp; solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments share a common sales organization and supply chain and conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments consist of consumer industries, including food and beverage, home and personal care and life sciences; transportation, including automotive and tire; and heavy industries, including oil and gas, mining and metals. additional information with respect to our operating segments, including a description of our operating segments and their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years ended september 30, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 is contained in note 15 in the financial statements and under the caption results of operations in md&amp;a. geographic information in 2016 , sales to customers in the united states accounted for 55 percent of our total sales. outside the united states, we sell in every region. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in china, canada, mexico, italy, the united kingdom, germany and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 15 in the financial statements. competition our competitors range from large diversified corporations that also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that specialize in niche industrial automation products, solutions and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology differentiation, domain expertise, installed base, distribution network, quality of products, solutions and services, global presence and price. major competitors of both segments include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, emerson electric co., mitsubishi electric corp. and honeywell international inc. distribution in most countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in other countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 70 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 was $319.3 million , $307.3 million and $290.1 million , respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . employees at september 30, 2016 , we had approximately 22,000 employees. approximately 8,500 were employed in the united states. 3 table of contents raw materials we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog consists of (in millions): september 30, 2016 2015 architecture &amp; software $ 185.8 $ 165.1 control products &amp; solutions 1,024.6 999.5 $ 1,210.4 $ 1,164.6 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2017 were approximately $199 million as of september 30, 2016 . environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 14 in the financial statements. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with liabilities and costs related to environmental remediation. patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as powerflex for our ac drives, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the "investors" link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 4 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process uses the integrated risk framework in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso) to assess, manage and monitor risks. we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoiding risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee of the board of directors also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and could adversely affect us. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our sales and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays or defaults, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns linger, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets and the costs of borrowing are affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. we sell to customers around the world and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. we do business in more than 80 countries around the world. approximately 45 percent of our sales in 2016 were to customers outside the u.s. in addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located in many places around the world. the future success of our business depends in large part on growth in our sales in non-u.s. markets. our global operations are subject to numerous financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability; prevalence of corruption in certain countries; enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights and compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, product content and performance, employment and repatriation of earnings. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification and labeling laws and regulations. our customers may also be required to comply with such legislative and regulatory requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions. changes in these requirements could impact demand for our products, solutions and services. 5 table of contents an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline. failures or security breaches of our products or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) both in our products, solutions and services for customers and in our enterprise it infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. government agencies and security experts have warned about growing risks of hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders and other actors targeting every type of it system including industrial control systems such as those we sell and service and corporate enterprise it systems. these actors may engage in fraud, theft of confidential or proprietary information and sabotage. our products, solutions and services are used by our direct and indirect customers in applications that may be subject to information theft, tampering or sabotage. among other industries, our products, solutions and services are often employed in the control of critical infrastructure. careless or malicious actors could cause a customer's process to be disrupted or could cause equipment to operate in an improper manner that could result in harm to people or property. while we continue to improve the security attributes of our products, solutions and services, we can reduce risk, not eliminate it. to a significant extent, the security of our customers' systems depends on how those systems are protected, configured, updated and monitored, all of which are typically outside our control. our business uses development, engineering, manufacturing, sales, accounting, support and it resources on a dispersed, global basis. our vendors, partners, employees and customers have access to, and share, information across multiple locations via various digital technologies. in addition, we rely on partners and vendors for a wide range of outsourced activities. secure connectivity is important to these ongoing operations. also, our partners and vendors frequently have access to our confidential information as well as confidential information about our customers, employees and others. our information security efforts, under the leadership of our chief information security officer, with the support of the entire management team, include major programs designed to address security governance, identification of critical assets, protection of critical assets, the human element/insider risk, third-party relationships and cyber defense operations. we believe these measures reduce, but cannot eliminate, the risk of an information security incident. any significant security incidents could have an adverse impact on sales, harm our reputation and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. there are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects and managing the performance and quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, we could incur cost overruns, liabilities and other losses that would adversely affect our results of operations. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, the domain expertise of our employees and partners, product performance, quality of our products, solutions and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. in addition, we continue to drive productivity to reduce our cost structure. if we fail to achieve our objectives, to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products, solutions and services, we may lose business or experience price erosion and correspondingly lower sales and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. 6 table of contents we face the potential harms of natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. our business depends on the movement of people and goods around the world. natural disasters, pandemics, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal expenses to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. claims from taxing authorities could have an adverse effect on our income tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret and comply with the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the uncertainty of how underlying facts may be construed, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our business success depends on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. difficulty attracting and retaining members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. increasing employee benefit costs could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the expenses we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit pension plans depend on factors such as changes in market interest rates, the value of plan assets, mortality assumptions and health care trend rates. significant unfavorable changes in these factors would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits depend on health care cost inflation. an inability to control costs related to employee and retiree benefits could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the products, solutions and services we sell, employment, contract matters and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. 7 table of contents our operations are subject to various environmental regulations that are concerned with human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible for satisfying those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. a disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our sales. in the united states and canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to our existing distribution channel could adversely affect our sales. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor or other events. we rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services. our business requires that we buy equipment, components and services including finished products, electronic components and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; changes in the cost of these purchases due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; intellectual property risks such as ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; information security risks associated with providing confidential information to suppliers; and shortages of components, commodities or other materials, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of sales. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business' customers and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as sales increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; legal and compliance issues; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 8 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $10.2 million and a liability of $17.4 million at september 30, 2016 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2016 and 2015 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar further strengthens relative to 2016 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $20.9 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on these contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. there was no impact on earnings due to ineffective hedges in 2016 or 2015 . a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with the hedged exposures and related contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations are primarily comprised of commercial paper borrowings. commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $448.6 million at september 30, 2016 , with a weighted average interest rate of 0.57 percent and weighted average maturity period of 35 days . there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at september 30, 2015 . we have issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations as needed. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our short-term debt would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $1,516.3 million at september 30, 2016 and $1,500.9 million at september 30, 2015 . the fair value of this debt was $1,780.5 million at september 30, 2016 and $1,682.6 million at september 30, 2015 . the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in market interest rates would not be significant to the overall fair value of our long-term debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. in february 2015, we entered into interest rate swap contracts, which we designated as fair value hedges. these interest rate swaps effectively converted the $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.050 percent notes payable in march 2020 (2020 notes) and 2.875 percent notes payable in march 2025 (2025 notes) to floating rate debt, each at a rate based on three-month libor plus a fixed spread. the effective floating interest rates were 1.281 percent for the 2020 notes and 1.691 percent for the 2025 notes at september 30, 2016 . the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts at september 30, 2016 was a net unrealized gain of $19.5 million . a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our interest rate swaps would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. ( rockwell automation or the company ), a leader in industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable . our products, solutions and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce enterprise business risk. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. 2 table of contents as used herein, the terms we , us , our , rockwell automation or the company include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 6, 2018 (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. in 2017 , our total sales were $6.3 billion . our architecture &amp; software operating segment recorded sales of $2.9 billion ( 46 percent of our total sales) in 2017 . our control products &amp; solutions operating segment recorded sales of $3.4 billion ( 54 percent of our total sales) in 2017 . our architecture &amp; software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio, and our control products &amp; solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments share a common sales organization and supply chain and conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments consist of consumer industries, including food and beverage, home and personal care and life sciences; transportation, including automotive and tire; and heavy industries, including oil and gas, mining and metals. additional information with respect to our operating segments, including a description of our operating segments and their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years ended september 30, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 is contained in note 16 in the financial statements and under the caption results of operations in md&amp;a. geographic information in 2017 , sales to customers in the united states accounted for 55 percent of our total sales. we do business in more than 80 countries around the world. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in china, canada, mexico, italy, the united kingdom, germany and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our global operations. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 16 in the financial statements. competition our competitors range from large diversified corporations that also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that specialize in niche industrial automation products, solutions and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology differentiation, domain expertise, installed base, distribution network, quality of products, solutions and services, global presence and price. major competitors of both segments include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, emerson electric co., mitsubishi electric corp. and honeywell international inc. distribution in most countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in other countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 75 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $348.2 million , $319.3 million and $307.3 million , respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2017 , 2016 or 2015 . employees at september 30, 2017 , we had approximately 22,000 employees. approximately 8,500 were employed in the united states. 3 table of contents raw materials we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog consists of (in millions): september 30, 2017 2016 architecture &amp; software $ 205.1 $ 185.8 control products &amp; solutions 1,091.6 1,024.6 $ 1,296.7 $ 1,210.4 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled beyond 2018 were approximately $269 million as of september 30, 2017 . environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 15 in the financial statements. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with liabilities and costs related to environmental remediation. patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as powerflex for our ac drives, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual reports to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the investors link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 4 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process assesses, manages, and monitors risks consistent with the integrated risk framework in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoid risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee of the board of directors also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could adversely affect us and cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our sales and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays or defaults, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns arise, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets and the costs of borrowing are affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. we sell to customers around the world and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. we do business in more than 80 countries around the world. approximately 45 percent of our sales in 2017 were to customers outside the u.s. in addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located in many places around the world. the future success of our business depends in large part on growth in our sales in non-u.s. markets. our global operations are subject to numerous financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability; prevalence of corruption in certain countries; enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights; and compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, product content and performance, employment and repatriation of earnings. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline. 5 table of contents failures or security breaches of our products, manufacturing environment, or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) in our products, solutions and services for customers, manufacturing environment, and in our enterprise it infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. despite the implementation of security measures, it systems, including our corporate enterprise systems, manufacturing systems, and industrial control systems such as those we sell and service, are vulnerable to unauthorized access by nation states, hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders and other actors who may engage in fraud, theft of confidential or proprietary information and sabotage. these systems are also vulnerable to malware (including ransomware), cyber attack, and other events, ranging from individual attempts to advanced persistent threats. recent global cyber attacks have been perpetuated by compromising software updates in widely-used software products, increasing the risk of this potential threat. in some cases, these malware attacks were spread throughout the supply chain, moving from one company to the next via authorized network connections. our products, solutions and services are used by our direct and indirect customers in applications that may be subject to information theft, tampering or sabotage. among other industries, our products, solutions and services are often employed in the control of critical infrastructure. careless or malicious actors could cause a customer's process to be disrupted or could cause equipment to operate in an improper manner that could result in harm to people or property. while we continue to improve the security attributes of our products, solutions and services, we can reduce risk, not eliminate it. to a significant extent, the security of our customers' systems depends on how those systems are designed, installed, protected, configured, updated and monitored, much of which are typically outside our control. our business uses it resources on a dispersed, global basis for a wide variety of functions including development, engineering, manufacturing, sales, accounting, and human resources. our vendors, partners, employees and customers have access to, and share, information across multiple locations via various digital technologies. in addition, we rely on partners and vendors for a wide range of outsourced activities. secure connectivity is important to these ongoing operations. also, our partners and vendors frequently have access to our confidential information as well as confidential information about our customers, employees and others. our information security efforts, under the leadership of our chief information security officer and chief product security officer, with the support of the entire management team, include major programs designed to address security governance, product security, identification and protection of critical assets, insider risk, third-party risk, and cyber defense operations. we believe these measures reduce, but cannot eliminate, the risk of an information security incident. any significant security incidents could have an adverse impact on sales, harm our reputation and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. there are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the performance and quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, we could incur cost overruns, liabilities and other losses that would adversely affect our results of operations. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification and labeling laws and regulations. our customers may also be required to comply with such legislative and regulatory requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions. changes in these requirements could impact demand for our products, solutions and services. 6 table of contents our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, the domain expertise of our employees and partners, product performance, quality of our products, solutions and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the geographic markets and product areas that we serve and across our market segments. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels across and within geographic markets by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. in addition, we continue to drive productivity to reduce our cost structure. if we fail to achieve our objectives, to keep pace with technological changes, or to provide high quality products, solutions and services, we may lose business or experience price erosion and correspondingly lower sales and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. our business depends on the movement of people and goods around the world. natural disasters, pandemics, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal expenses to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. claims from taxing authorities could have an adverse effect on our income tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret and comply with the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the uncertainty of how underlying facts may be construed, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our business success depends on attracting, developing, and retaining highly qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. difficulty attracting, developing, and retaining members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. increasing employee benefit costs could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the expenses we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit pension plans depend on factors such as changes in market interest rates, the value of plan assets, mortality assumptions and health care trend rates. significant unfavorable changes in these factors would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits depend on laws and regulations, which could change, as well as health care cost inflation. an inability to control costs related to employee and retiree benefits could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 7 table of contents we rely on our distribution channel for a substantial portion of our sales. in the united states and canada, a large percentage of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. we depend on the capabilities and competencies of our distributors to sell our products and services and deliver value to our customers. disruptions to our existing distribution channel or the failure of distributors to maintain and develop the appropriate capabilities to sell our products and services could adversely affect our sales. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor or other events. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the products, solutions and services we sell, employment, contract matters, and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. our operations are subject to various environmental regulations that are concerned with human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground, and water, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible for satisfying those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. failure to identify, manage, complete, and integrate acquisitions and technology investments may adversely affect our business. as part of our strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of or investment opportunities in businesses as well as the purchase of technology from third parties. in order to be successful with these transactions, we must identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transaction, and manage post-closing matters, such as integration of the acquired business or technology. we may not be able to identify or complete beneficial acquisition or transaction opportunities given the intense competition for them. even if we successfully identify and complete such transactions, we may not be able to successfully address risks and uncertainties inherent in such transactions, including: difficulties in integrating the purchased operations, technologies, products or services, retaining the acquired business' customers and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as sales increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; legal and compliance issues; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions and technology investments could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. 8 table of contents we rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services. our business requires that we buy equipment, components and services including finished products, electronic components and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; changes in the cost of these purchases due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; intellectual property risks such as ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; information security risks associated with providing confidential information to suppliers; and shortages of components, commodities or other materials, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of sales. 9 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $13.5 million and a liability of $36.4 million at september 30, 2017 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2017 and 2016 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to 2017 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $21.4 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on these contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. there was no impact on earnings due to ineffective hedges in 2017 or 2016 . a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with the hedged exposures and related contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations are primarily comprised of commercial paper borrowings. commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $350.0 million at september 30, 2017 , with a weighted average interest rate of 1.26 percent and weighted average maturity period of 10 days . commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $448.6 million at september 30, 2016 , with a weighted average interest rate of 0.57 percent and weighted average maturity period of 35 days . we have issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations as needed. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our short-term debt would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $1,243.4 million at september 30, 2017 and $1,516.3 million at september 30, 2016 . the fair value of this debt was $1,452.6 million at september 30, 2017 and $1,780.5 million at september 30, 2016 . the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in market interest rates would not be significant to the overall fair value of our long-term debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. in february 2015, we entered into interest rate swap contracts, which we designated as fair value hedges. these interest rate swaps effectively converted the $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.050 percent notes payable in march 2020 (2020 notes) and 2.875 percent notes payable in march 2025 (2025 notes) to floating rate debt, each at a rate based on three-month libor plus a fixed spread. the effective floating interest rates were 1.755 percent for the 2020 notes and 2.165 percent for the 2025 notes at september 30, 2017 . the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts at september 30, 2017 was a net unrealized loss of $4.6 million . a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our interest rate swaps would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. ( rockwell automation or the company ), a leader in industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable . our hardware and software products, solutions and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce enterprise business risk. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the 2 table of contents reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , rockwell automation or the company include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 5, 2019 (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. both operating segments share a common sales organization and supply chain and conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments consist of consumer industries, including food and beverage, home and personal care and life sciences; transportation, including automotive and tire; and heavy industries, including oil and gas, mining, metals, and chemicals. geographic information we do business in more than 80 countries around the world. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in china, canada, mexico, italy, the united kingdom, germany, and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our global operations. competition our competitors range from large diversified corporations that may also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that offer a limited portfolio of industrial automation products, solutions and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology differentiation, domain expertise, installed base, distribution network, quality of hardware and software products, solutions and services, global presence and price. major competitors include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, emerson electric co., mitsubishi electric corp. and honeywell international inc. distribution in most countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in other countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 75 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. employees at september 30, 2018 , we had approximately 23,000 employees. approximately 8,600 were employed in the united states. raw materials we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. 3 table of contents backlog our total order backlog consists of (in millions): september 30, 2018 2017 architecture &amp; software $ 215.7 $ 205.1 control products &amp; solutions 1,196.3 1,091.6 $ 1,412.0 $ 1,296.7 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled beyond 2019 were approximately $232 million as of september 30, 2018 . environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 15 in the financial statements. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with liabilities and costs related to environmental remediation. patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our hardware and software products and operations. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as powerflex for our ac drives, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at https://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual reports to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the investors link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at https://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 4 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process assesses, manages, and monitors risks consistent with the integrated risk framework in internal control integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoid risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee of the board of directors also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could adversely affect us and cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our sales and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced, canceled or delayed orders, payment delays or defaults, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our hardware and software products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns arise, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets and the costs of borrowing are affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. we sell to customers around the world and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. we do business in more than 80 countries around the world. approximately 45 percent of our sales in 2018 were to customers outside the u.s. in addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located in many places around the world. the future success of our business depends in large part on growth in our sales in non-u.s. markets. our global operations are subject to numerous financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability; prevalence of corruption in certain countries; enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights; and compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to exports, imports, tariffs, embargoes and other trade restrictions, investments, taxation, product content and performance, employment and repatriation of earnings. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. the occurrence or consequences of these risks may make it more difficult to operate our business and increase our costs, which could decrease our profitability and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer hardware and software products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new hardware and software products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences and emerging technological and broader industry trends, demand for our products could decline. 5 table of contents we rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services. our business requires that we buy equipment, components and services including finished products, electronic components and commodities. our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our hardware and software products; changes in the cost of these purchases due to inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, taxes, tariffs, embargoes and other trade restrictions, commodity market volatility or other factors that affect our suppliers; intellectual property risks such as challenges to ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; and shortages of components, commodities or other materials, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery of our products, solutions and services. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability of, or delivery delays for single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying alternative suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of sales. failures or security breaches of our products, connected services, manufacturing environment, supply chain, or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) in our hardware and software products, solutions and services for customers, manufacturing environment, and in our enterprise it infrastructure. despite the implementation of security measures, our it systems are vulnerable to unauthorized access by nation states, hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders, and other actors who may engage in fraud, theft of confidential or proprietary information, or sabotage. these systems could be compromised by malware (including ransomware), cyber attacks, and other events, ranging from widespread, non-targeted, global cyber threats to targeted advanced persistent threats. given that our hardware and software products and services are used in critical infrastructure, these threats could indicate increased risk for our products, services, manufacturing, and it infrastructure. recent global cyber attacks have been perpetuated by compromising software updates in widely-used software products, increasing the risk that vulnerabilities or malicious content could be inserted into our products. in some cases, malware attacks were spread throughout the supply chain, moving from one company to the next via authorized network connections. our hardware and software products, solutions, and services are used by our direct and indirect customers in applications that may be subject to information theft, tampering, or sabotage. careless or malicious actors could cause a customer's process to be disrupted or could cause equipment to operate in an improper manner that could result in harm to people or property. while we continue to improve the security attributes of our hardware and software products, solutions and services, we can reduce risk, not eliminate it. to a significant extent, the security of our customers' systems depends on how those systems are designed, installed, protected, configured, updated and monitored, much of which are typically outside our control. our business uses it resources on a dispersed, global basis for a wide variety of functions including development, engineering, manufacturing, sales, accounting, and human resources. our vendors, partners, employees and customers have access to, and share, information across multiple locations via various digital technologies. in addition, we rely on partners and vendors for a wide range of outsourced activities, including cloud providers, are part of our internal it infrastructure and our commercial offerings. secure connectivity is important to these ongoing operations. also, our partners and vendors frequently have access to our confidential information as well as confidential information about our customers, employees, and others. we design our security architecture to reduce the risk that a compromise of our partners' infrastructure, for example a cloud platform, could lead to a compromise of our internal systems or customer networks, but this risk cannot be eliminated and vulnerabilities at third parties could result in unknown risk exposure to our business. the current cyber threat environment indicates increased risk for all companies, including those in industrial automation and information. like other global companies, we have experienced cyber threats and incidents, although none have been material or had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. our information security efforts, under the leadership of our chief information security officer and chief product security officer, with the support of the entire management team, include major programs designed to address security governance, product security, identification and protection of critical assets, insider risk, third-party risk, and cyber defense operations. we believe these measures reduce, but cannot eliminate, the risk of an information 6 table of contents security incident. any significant security incidents could have an adverse impact on sales, harm our reputation and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. there are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the performance and quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, we could incur cost overruns, liabilities and other losses that would adversely affect our results of operations. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification and labeling laws and regulations. our customers may also be required to comply with such legislative and regulatory requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions. changes in these requirements could impact demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services. compliance with increasing privacy regulation, such as the european union's general data protection regulation (gdpr), could increase our operating costs as part of our efforts to protect and safeguard our sensitive data and personal information. failure to maintain information privacy could result in legal liability or reputational harm. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our hardware and software product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, the domain expertise of our employees and partners, product performance, quality of our hardware and software products, solutions and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the geographic markets and product areas that we serve and across our market segments. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels across and within geographic markets by continually developing advanced technologies for new hardware and software products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. in addition, we continue to drive productivity to reduce our cost structure. if we fail to achieve our objectives, to keep pace with technological changes, or to provide high quality hardware and software products, solutions and services, we may lose business or experience price erosion and correspondingly lower sales and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. we rely on our distribution channel for a substantial portion of our sales. in the united states and canada, a large percentage of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. we depend on the capabilities and competencies of our distributors to sell our hardware and software products and services and deliver value to our customers. disruptions to our existing distribution channel or the failure of distributors to maintain and develop the appropriate capabilities to sell our hardware and software products and services could adversely affect our sales. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor or other events. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. our business depends on the movement of people and goods around the world. natural disasters, pandemics, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, power outages, fires, explosions, equipment failures, sabotage, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. disruptions to our it infrastructure from system failures, shutdowns, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures, and other events, including disruptions at third party it and other service providers, could also interfere with or disrupt our operations. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our hardware and software products, solutions or services, increase our costs, or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, solutions or services. 7 table of contents intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal expenses to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. claims from taxing authorities could have an adverse effect on our income tax expense and financial condition. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret and comply with the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the uncertainty of how underlying facts may be construed, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business success depends on attracting, developing, and retaining highly qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. difficulty attracting, developing, and retaining members of our management team and key employees, including employees with the necessary technological expertise, could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the hardware and software products, solutions and services we sell, employment, contract matters, and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance proceeds make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. our operations are subject to various environmental regulations that are concerned with human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground, and water, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible for satisfying those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. 8 table of contents failure to identify, manage, complete, and integrate acquisitions and technology investments may adversely affect our business. as part of our strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of or investment opportunities in businesses as well as the purchase of technology from third parties. in order to be successful with these transactions, we must identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transaction, and manage post-closing matters, such as integration of the acquired business or technology. we may not be able to identify or complete beneficial acquisition or transaction opportunities given the intense competition for them. even if we successfully identify and complete such transactions, we may not be able to successfully address risks and uncertainties inherent in such transactions, including: difficulties in integrating the purchased operations, technologies, products or services, retaining the acquired business' customers and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as sales increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; legal and compliance issues; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions and technology investments could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges, and impairment and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. we own common stock in ptc inc. and are exposed to the volatility, liquidity and other risks inherent in holding that stock. we own common stock of ptc inc. (ptc), a nasdaq-listed company, that we acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.0 billion. we present this investment on our consolidated balance sheet at its fair value at the end of each reporting period, less a valuation adjustment pending registration of our shares of ptc common stock (shares) under the securities act of 1933, as amended, which, per a registration rights agreement entered into with ptc, must occur no later than july 19, 2019. the fair value of the shares is subject to fluctuation in the future due to the volatility of the stock market, changes in general economic conditions, and the performance of ptc. we will recognize all changes in the fair value of the shares (whether realized or unrealized) as gains or losses in our consolidated statement of operations. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the shares can materially impact the earnings we report, which introduces volatility in our earnings that is not associated with the results of our business operations. in particular, significant declines in the fair value of the shares would produce significant declines in our reported earnings. while there is an established trading market for shares of ptc common stock, there are limitations on our ability to dispose of some or all of the shares should we wish to reduce our investment. until approximately july 19, 2021, we are subject to contractual restrictions on our ability to transfer the shares, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, we are subject to certain restrictions on our ability to transfer the shares under the securities laws. further, the reported value of our shares does not necessarily reflect their lowest current market price. if we were forced to sell some or all the shares in the market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them at prices equivalent to the value of the shares that we have reported on our consolidated balance sheet, and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. finally, our equity position in ptc is a minority position which exposes us to further risk as we are not able to exert control over ptc. increasing employee benefit costs could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the expenses we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans depend on factors such as changes in market interest rates, the value of plan assets, mortality assumptions and healthcare trend rates. significant unfavorable changes in these factors would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded healthcare benefits depend on laws and regulations, which could change, as well as healthcare cost inflation. an inability to control costs related to employee and retiree benefits could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 9 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $22.0 million and a liability of $7.2 million at september 30, 2018 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2018 , the relative weakening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had a favorable impact on our sales and results of operations. in 2017 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to 2018 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $21.0 million . we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on these contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. there was no impact on earnings due to ineffective hedges in 2018 or 2017 . a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with the hedged exposures and related contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations are primarily comprised of commercial paper borrowings. commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $550.0 million at september 30, 2018 , with a weighted average interest rate of 2.27 percent and weighted average maturity period of 26 days. commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $350.0 million at september 30, 2017 , with a weighted average interest rate of 1.26 percent and weighted average maturity period of 10 days. we have issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations as needed. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our short-term debt would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $1,225.2 million at september 30, 2018 and $1,243.4 million at september 30, 2017 . the fair value of this debt was $1,391.3 million at september 30, 2018 and $1,452.6 million at september 30, 2017 . the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in market interest rates would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. in february 2015, we entered into interest rate swap contracts, which we designated as fair value hedges. these interest rate swaps effectively converted the $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.050 percent notes payable in march 2020 (2020 notes) and 2.875 percent notes payable in march 2025 (2025 notes) to floating rate debt, each at a rate based on three-month libor plus a fixed spread. the effective floating interest rates were 2.759 percent for the 2020 notes and 3.169 percent for the 2025 notes at september 30, 2018 . the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts at september 30, 2018 was a net unrealized loss of $24.0 million . a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our interest rate swaps would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. ( rockwell automation or the company ) is a global leader in industrial automation and digital transformation. we connect the imaginations of people with the potential of technology to expand what is humanly possible, making the world more productive and more sustainable. our hardware and software products, solutions and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce enterprise business risk. the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. 2 table of contents the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , rockwell automation or the company include wholly-owned and controlled majority-owned subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 4, 2020 (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the consolidated financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. both operating segments share a common sales organization and supply chain and conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments consist of discrete end markets (e.g., automotive, semiconductor, and warehousing &amp; logistics), hybrid end markets (e.g., food &amp; beverage, and life sciences), and process end markets (e.g., oil &amp; gas, metals, and chemicals). geographic information we do business in more than 100 countries around the world. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in china, canada, italy, mexico, the united kingdom, germany, and brazil. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our global operations. competition our competitors range from large diversified corporations that may also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that offer a limited portfolio of industrial automation products, solutions and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology differentiation, domain expertise, installed base, distribution network, quality of hardware and software products, solutions and services, global presence and price. major competitors include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, emerson electric co., mitsubishi electric corp. and honeywell international inc. distribution in most countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in other countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 75 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. employees at september 30, 2019 , we had approximately 23,000 employees. approximately 8,600 were employed in the united states. raw materials we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. 3 table of contents backlog our total order backlog consists of (in millions): september 30, 2019 2018 architecture &amp; software $ 174.7 $ 168.5 control products &amp; solutions 1,194.7 1,243.5 $ 1,369.4 $ 1,412.0 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled beyond 2020 were approximately $225 million as of september 30, 2019 . backlog was reclassified in 2018 to conform to our current reportable segments. see note 17 in the consolidated financial statements for more information. environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 16 in the consolidated financial statements. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with liabilities and costs related to environmental remediation. patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our hardware and software products and operations. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. we have received various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b and plantpax process automation system are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as controllogix and compactlogix for our control systems, powerflex for our ac drives, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at https://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual reports to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the investors link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at https://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 4 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process assesses, manages, and monitors risks consistent with the integrated risk framework in the enterprise risk management - integrated framework (2017) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoid risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee of the board of directors also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could adversely affect us and cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our sales and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced, canceled or delayed orders, payment delays or defaults, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our hardware and software products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns arise, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products. our ability to access the credit markets and the costs of borrowing are affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. the london interbank offered rate (libor) is the basis for determining the amount of our interest payments on borrowings under our $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. in addition, we have outstanding interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on libor. the u.k. financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, has announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain agreements that use libor as a benchmark and we cannot predict what alternative index or other amendments may be negotiated with our counterparties. as a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. additionally, uncertainty as to the nature of a potential discontinuance or modification of libor, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. for additional information, see financial condition in md&amp;a . we sell to customers around the world and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. we do business in more than 100 countries around the world. approximately 46 percent of our sales in 2019 were to customers outside the u.s. in addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located in many places around the world. the future success of our business depends in large part on growth in our sales in non-u.s. markets. our global operations are subject to numerous financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability; prevalence of corruption in certain countries; enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights; and compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to exports, imports, tariffs, embargoes and other trade restrictions, investments, taxation, product content and performance, employment and repatriation of earnings. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. the occurrence or consequences of these risks may make it more 5 table of contents difficult to operate our business and increase our costs, which could decrease our profitability and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. we rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services. our business requires that we buy equipment, components and services including finished products, electronic components and commodities. our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our hardware and software products; changes in the cost of these purchases due to inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, taxes, tariffs, commodity market volatility or other factors that affect our suppliers; embargoes, sanctions and other trade restrictions that may affect our ability to purchase from various suppliers; intellectual property risks such as challenges to ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; and shortages of components, commodities or other materials, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery of our products, solutions and services. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability of, or delivery delays for single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying alternative suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of sales. failures or security breaches of our products, connected services, manufacturing environment, supply chain, or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) in our hardware and software products, solutions and services for customers, manufacturing environment, and in our enterprise infrastructure. despite the implementation of security measures, our it systems are vulnerable to unauthorized access by nation states, hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders, and other actors who may engage in fraud, theft of confidential or proprietary information, or sabotage. our systems could be compromised by malware (including ransomware), cyber attacks, and other events, ranging from widespread, non-targeted, global cyber threats to targeted advanced persistent threats. given that our hardware and software products and services are used in critical infrastructure, these threats could indicate increased risk for our products, services, manufacturing, and it infrastructure. recent global cyber attacks have been perpetuated by compromising software updates in widely-used software products, increasing the risk that vulnerabilities or malicious content could be inserted into our products. in some cases, malware attacks were spread throughout the supply chain, moving from one company to the next via authorized network connections. our hardware and software products, solutions, and services are used by our direct and indirect customers in applications that may be subject to information theft, tampering, or sabotage. careless or malicious actors could cause a customer's process to be disrupted or could cause equipment to operate in an improper manner that could result in harm to people or property. while we continue to improve the security attributes of our hardware and software products, solutions and services, we can reduce risk, not eliminate it. to a significant extent, the security of our customers' systems depends on how those systems are designed, installed, protected, configured, updated and monitored, much of which are typically outside our control. our business uses it resources on a dispersed, global basis for a wide variety of functions including development, engineering, manufacturing, sales, accounting, and human resources. our vendors, partners, employees and customers have access to, and share, information across multiple locations via various digital technologies. in addition, we rely on partners and vendors for a wide range of outsourced activities, including cloud providers, as part of our internal it infrastructure and our commercial offerings. secure connectivity is important to these ongoing operations. also, our partners and vendors frequently have access to our confidential information as well as confidential information about our customers, employees, and others. we design our security architecture to reduce the risk that a compromise of our partners' infrastructure, for example a cloud platform, could lead to a compromise of our internal systems or customer networks, but this risk cannot be eliminated and vulnerabilities at third parties could result in unknown risk exposure to our business. the current cyber threat environment indicates increased risk for all companies, including those in industrial automation and information. like other global companies, we have experienced cyber threats and incidents, although none have been material or 6 table of contents had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. our information security efforts, under the leadership of our chief information security officer and chief product security officer, with the support of the entire management team, include major programs designed to address security governance, product security, identification and protection of critical assets, insider risk, third-party risk, and cyber defense operations. we believe these measures reduce, but cannot eliminate, the risk of an information security incident. any significant security incidents could have an adverse impact on sales, harm our reputation and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer hardware and software products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new hardware and software products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences and emerging technological and broader industry trends, demand for our products could decline. there are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the performance and quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, we could incur cost overruns, liabilities and other losses that would adversely affect our results of operations. new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification and labeling laws and regulations. our customers may also be required to comply with such legislative and regulatory requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions. changes in these requirements could impact demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services. compliance with state, federal and foreign privacy regulations, such as the european union's general data protection regulation (gdpr), could increase our operating costs as part of our efforts to protect and safeguard our sensitive data and personal information. failure to maintain information privacy could result in legal liability or reputational harm. our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our hardware and software product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, the domain expertise of our employees and partners, product performance, quality of our hardware and software products, solutions and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the geographic markets and product areas that we serve and across our market segments. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels across and within geographic markets by continually developing advanced technologies for new hardware and software products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. in addition, we continue to drive productivity to reduce our cost structure. if we fail to achieve our objectives, to keep pace with technological changes, or to provide high quality hardware and software products, solutions and services, we may lose business or experience price erosion and correspondingly lower sales and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. we rely on our distribution channel for a substantial portion of our sales. in north america, a large percentage of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. we depend on the capabilities and competencies of our distributors to sell our hardware and software products and services and deliver value to our customers. disruptions to our existing distribution channel or the failure of distributors to maintain and develop the appropriate capabilities to sell our hardware and software products and services could adversely affect our sales. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor or other events. 7 table of contents failure to identify, manage, complete, and integrate strategic transactions may adversely affect our business or we may not achieve the expected benefits of these transactions. as part of our strategy, we may pursue strategic transactions, including acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, other business opportunities and purchases of technology from third parties. in order to be successful, we must identify attractive transaction opportunities, effectively complete the transaction, and manage post-closing matters, such as integration of the acquired business or technology (including related personnel) and cooperation with our joint venture and other strategic partners. we may not be able to identify or complete beneficial transaction opportunities given the intense competition for them. even if we successfully identify and complete such transactions, we may not achieve the expected benefits of such transactions and we may not be able to successfully address risks and uncertainties inherent in such transactions, including: difficulties in integrating the purchased or new operations, technologies, products or services, retaining customers and achieving the expected benefits of the transaction, such as sales increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees or difficulties integrating personnel; legal and compliance issues; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, financial systems, internal and other controls, procedures, policies and information systems; difficulties maintaining relationships with our joint venture and other strategic partners (including as a result of such joint venture and other strategic partners having differing business objectives) and managing disputes with such joint venture and other strategic partners that may arise in connection with our relationships with them; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future strategic transactions and technology investments could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges, and impairment and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. our business depends on the movement of people and goods around the world. natural disasters, pandemics, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, power outages, fires, explosions, equipment failures, sabotage, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. disruptions to our it infrastructure from system failures, shutdowns, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures, and other events, including disruptions at third party it and other service providers, could also interfere with or disrupt our operations. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our hardware and software products, solutions or services, increase our costs, or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, solutions or services. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal expenses to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. claims from taxing authorities could have an adverse effect on our income tax expense and financial condition. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret and comply with the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the uncertainty of how underlying facts may be construed, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 8 table of contents our business success depends on attracting, developing, and retaining highly qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees, and the effective implementation of processes and technology to increase employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency. the skills, experience and industry knowledge of our employees significantly benefit our operations and performance. difficulty attracting, developing, and retaining members of our management team and key employees with the necessary expertise, including by offering attractive compensation, benefits, and development opportunities, could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we continuously evaluate, modify, and enhance our internal processes and technologies to increase employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency, and to mitigate failure risks from older technologies currently in use. failure to identify and successfully implement new processes and technologies could add costs and complications to ongoing operations and negatively impact employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the hardware and software products, solutions and services we sell, employment, contract matters, and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance proceeds make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits. our operations are subject to various environmental regulations concerning human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground, and water, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible for satisfying those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. we own common stock in ptc inc. and are exposed to the volatility, liquidity and other risks inherent in holding that stock. we own common stock of ptc inc. (ptc), a nasdaq-listed company, that we acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.0 billion. we present this investment on our consolidated balance sheet at its fair value at the end of each reporting period, less a valuation adjustment for periods ending prior to the registration of our shares of ptc common stock (shares) under the securities act of 1933, as amended, on november 28, 2018, per a registration rights agreement entered into with ptc. the fair value of the shares is subject to fluctuation in the future due to the volatility of the stock market, changes in general economic conditions, and the performance of ptc. we will recognize all changes in the fair value of the shares (whether realized or unrealized) as gains or losses in our consolidated statement of operations. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the shares can materially impact the earnings we report, which introduces volatility in our earnings that is not associated with the results of our business operations. in particular, significant declines in the fair value of the shares would produce significant declines in our reported earnings. while there is an established trading market for shares of ptc common stock, there are limitations on our ability to dispose of some or all of the shares should we wish to reduce our investment. until july 19, 2021, we are subject to contractual restrictions on our ability to transfer the shares, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, we are subject to certain restrictions on our ability to transfer the shares under the securities laws. further, the reported value of the shares does not necessarily reflect their lowest current market price. if we were forced to sell some or all of the shares in the market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell them at prices equivalent to the value of the shares that we have reported on our consolidated balance sheet, and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. 9 table of contents finally, our equity position in ptc is a minority position which exposes us to further risk as we are not able to exert control over ptc. increasing employee benefit costs could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the expenses we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans depend on factors such as changes in market interest rates, the value of plan assets, mortality assumptions and healthcare trend rates. significant unfavorable changes in these factors would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded healthcare benefits depend on laws and regulations, which could change, as well as healthcare cost inflation. an inability to control costs related to employee and retiree benefits could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 10 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $28.1 million and a liability of $5.6 million at september 30, 2019 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2019 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. in 2018 , the relative weakening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had a favorable impact on our sales and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to 2019 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $23 million . we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on these contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. there was no impact on earnings due to ineffective hedges in 2019 , 2018 or 2017. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with the hedged exposures and related contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations are primarily comprised of commercial paper borrowings. there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of september 30, 2019 . commercial paper borrowings were $550.0 million at september 30, 2018 , with a weighted average interest rate of 2.27 percent and weighted average maturity period of 26 days. we have issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations as needed. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term and current portion of long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $2,256.9 million at september 30, 2019 and $1,225.2 million at september 30, 2018 . the fair value of this debt was approximately $2,680.9 million at september 30, 2019 and $1,391.3 million at september 30, 2018 . the potential increase in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in market interest rates would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. in february 2015, we entered into interest rate swap contracts, which we designated as fair value hedges. these interest rate swaps effectively converted the $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.050 percent notes payable in march 2020 ( 2020 notes ) and 2.875 percent notes payable in march 2025 ( 2025 notes ) to floating rate debt, each at a rate based on three-month libor plus a fixed spread. the effective floating interest rates were 2.576 percent for the 2020 notes and 2.986 percent for the 2025 notes at september 30, 2019 . the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts at september 30, 2019 was a net unrealized gain of $7.0 million . a hypothetical 50 basis point increase in average market interest rates related to our interest rate swaps would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. ( rockwell automation or the company ) is a global leader in industrial automation and digital transformation. we connect the imaginations of people with the potential of technology to expand what is humanly possible, making the world more productive and more sustainable. our hardware and software products, solutions and services are designed to meet our customers' needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce enterprise business risk. 2 table of contents the company continues the business founded as the allen-bradley company in 1903. the privately-owned allen-bradley company was a leading north american manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former rockwell international corporation (ric) purchased it in 1985. the company was incorporated in delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, ric contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric's shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , rockwell automation or the company include wholly-owned and controlled majority-owned subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 2, 2021 , (the proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the consolidated financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments during fiscal 2020, we had two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. both operating segments share a common sales organization and supply chain and conduct business globally. major markets served by both segments consist of discrete end markets (e.g., automotive, semiconductor, and warehousing &amp; logistics), hybrid end markets (e.g., food &amp; beverage, and life sciences), and process end markets (e.g., oil &amp; gas, metals, and chemicals). starting in fiscal 2021, we have three operating segments: intelligent devices, software &amp; control, and lifecycle services. the intelligent devices segment includes drives, motion, safety, sensing, industrial components, and configured-to-order products. the software &amp; control segment includes control and visualization software and hardware, information software, and network and security infrastructure. the lifecycle services segment includes consulting, professional services and solutions, connected services, and maintenance services, as well as the sensia joint venture. geographic information we do business in more than 100 countries around the world. the largest sales outside the united states on a country-of-destination basis are in china, canada, italy, mexico, the united kingdom, germany, and australia. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our global operations. competition our competitors range from large diversified corporations that may also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that offer a limited portfolio of industrial automation products, solutions and services. factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology differentiation, domain expertise, installed base, distribution network, quality of hardware and software products, solutions and services, global presence and price. major competitors include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, emerson electric co., mitsubishi electric corp. and honeywell international inc. distribution in most countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. in other countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. approximately 80 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2020 , 2019 and 2018 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. employees see item 7. md&amp;a for information on our employees, including information related to attracting, developing, and retaining highly qualified talent. 3 table of contents raw materials we purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. the raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog consists of (in millions): september 30, 2020 2019 architecture &amp; software $ 283.2 $ 174.7 control products &amp; solutions 1,273.9 1,194.7 $ 1,557.1 $ 1,369.4 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled beyond 2021 were approximately $296 million as of september 30, 2020 . environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 17 in the consolidated financial statements. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with liabilities and costs related to environmental remediation. patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our hardware and software products, solutions and services. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. we have received various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company's name and its registered trademark rockwell automation and other trademarks such as allen-bradley , a-b , plantpax process automation system , and the connected enterprise are important to both of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as controllogix and compactlogix for our control systems, powerflex for our ac drives, and rockwell software and factorytalk for our software offerings. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. available information we maintain a website at https://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual reports to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the investors link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the sec. all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec's website at https://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available on our website. the information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. 4 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. these risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. our enterprise risk management (erm) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. our erm process assesses, manages, and monitors risks consistent with the integrated risk framework in the enterprise risk management - integrated framework (2017) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (coso). we believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our strategy. our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoid risks. we can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent. a team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. our board of directors provides oversight of the erm process and reviews significant identified risks. the audit committee of the board of directors also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. our other board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. our goal is to proactively manage risks using a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. however, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k and other risks and uncertainties could adversely affect us and cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. industry and economic risks we face the potential harms of natural disasters, pandemics, including the covid-19 pandemic, acts of war, terrorism, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations, the duration and severity of which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. our business depends on the movement of people and goods around the world. natural disasters, pandemics (including the covid-19 pandemic), acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, power outages, fires, explosions, equipment failures, sabotage, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. disruptions to our it infrastructure from system failures, shutdowns, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures, and other events, including disruptions at third party it and other service providers, could also interfere with or disrupt our operations. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our hardware and software products, solutions or services, increase our costs, or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, solutions or services. the covid-19 pandemic has caused significant disruption to the global economy, including in all of the regions in which we, our suppliers, distributors, business partners and customers do business and in which our workforce is located. the covid-19 pandemic and efforts to manage it, including those by governmental authorities, have had, and could continue to have, significant impacts on global markets. while the duration and severity of those impacts on our business are highly uncertain, they have had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including, but not limited to, the following: our customers are, and continue to be, subject to significant risks and have had, and could continue to have, adverse impacts to their business operations and financial condition related to the covid-19 pandemic, which could lead to a decrease in their liquidity and/or industrial spending. this has resulted in, and could continue to result in, a decrease in demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services, as well as impact our customers' ability to pay for such hardware and software products, solutions and services. the covid-19 pandemic and responses to it have significantly limited or prevented the movement of goods and services worldwide, which has resulted in and could continue to result in disruptions in our supply chain and our difficulty in procuring or inability to procure components and materials necessary for our hardware and software products, solutions and services. the impact of the covid-19 pandemic and responses to it has increased and could continue to increase the costs of making and distributing our hardware and software products, solutions and services or result in delays in delivering, or an inability to deliver, them to our customers. 5 table of contents our workforce may be unable or unwilling to work on-site or travel as a result of event cancellations, facility closures, shelter-in-place, travel and other restrictions and changes in industry practice, or if they, their co-workers or their family members become ill or otherwise require care arrangements. these workforce disruptions have adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our ability to operate, including to develop, manufacture, generate sales of, promote, market and deliver our hardware and software products, solutions and services, and provide customer support. uncertainty over the duration and severity of the economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic and effectiveness of efforts to manage it have caused significant volatility in the capital and other financial markets, which has adversely impacted, and could continue to adversely impact, global liquidity and asset values (including the price of our stock and the securities of other companies we own, such as the common stock we own in ptc inc., and the fair value of our pension plans' investments). this uncertainty and volatility could adversely affect our ability to, or the cost at which we may, access the capital and other financial markets, including the commercial paper market, or otherwise obtain debt or equity financing, which could adversely affect our financial condition or ability to satisfy our contractual obligations and fund our other business operations or future investment opportunities. the unprecedented and continuously evolving nature of the covid-19 pandemic make the duration and severity of its impacts increasingly difficult to predict, which could limit our ability to respond to those impacts. additionally, the impacts described above and other impacts of the covid-19 pandemic and responses to it could substantially increase the risk to us from the other risks described in this item 1a, risk factors . adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our sales and profitability. we are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced, canceled or delayed orders, payment delays or defaults, supply chain disruptions or other adverse events as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. as economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns arise, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products, solutions and services. oil &amp; gas is a major industry that we serve. demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services is sensitive to industry volatility and risks including those related to commodity prices, supply and demand dynamics, productions costs, geological, and political activities. when adverse oil &amp; gas industry events arise, companies may reduce their levels of spending, which could result in decreased demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services. our ability to access the credit markets and the costs of borrowing are affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. if our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced. the london interbank offered rate (libor) is the basis for determining the amount of our interest payments on borrowings under our $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. the u.k. financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, has announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain agreements that use libor as a benchmark and we cannot predict what alternative index or other amendments may be negotiated with our counterparties. as a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. additionally, uncertainty as to the nature of a potential discontinuance or modification of libor, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially and adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. for additional information, see financial condition in md&amp;a . 6 table of contents our industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. we compete based on breadth and scope of our hardware and software product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, the domain expertise of our employees and partners, product performance, quality of our hardware and software products, solutions and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers' business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the geographic markets and product areas that we serve and across our market segments. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels across and within geographic markets by continually developing advanced technologies for new hardware and software products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers' business problems. in addition, we continue to drive productivity to reduce our cost structure. if we fail to achieve our objectives, to keep pace with technological changes, or to provide high quality hardware and software products, solutions and services, we may lose business or experience price erosion and correspondingly lower sales and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. business and operational risks we sell to customers around the world and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries. we do business in more than 100 countries around the world. approximately 46 percent of our sales in 2020 were to customers outside the u.s. in addition, our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located in many places around the world. the future success of our business depends in large part on growth in our sales in non-u.s. markets. our global operations are subject to numerous financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability; prevalence of corruption in certain countries; enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights; and compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to exports, imports, tariffs, embargoes and other trade restrictions, investments, taxation, product content and performance, employment and repatriation of earnings. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. the occurrence or consequences of these risks may make it more difficult to operate our business and may increase our costs, which could decrease our profitability and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. we rely on suppliers to provide equipment, components and services. our business requires that we buy equipment, components and services including finished products, electronic components and commodities. our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality or an insecure supply chain, which could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our hardware and software products, solutions and services; changes in the cost of these purchases due to inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, taxes, tariffs, commodity market volatility or other factors that affect our suppliers; embargoes, sanctions and other trade restrictions that may affect our ability to purchase from various suppliers; intellectual property risks such as challenges to ownership of rights or alleged infringement by suppliers; and shortages of components, commodities or other materials, which could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery of our products, solutions and services. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability of, or delivery delays for, single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying alternative suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of sales. 7 table of contents failures or security breaches of our products, connected services, manufacturing environment, supply chain, or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely heavily on information technology (it) in our hardware and software products, solutions and services for customers, manufacturing environment, and in our enterprise infrastructure. despite the implementation of security measures, our it systems are vulnerable to unauthorized access by nation states, hackers, cyber-criminals, malicious insiders, and other actors who may engage in fraud, theft of confidential or proprietary information, or sabotage. our systems could be compromised by malware (including ransomware), cyber attacks, and other events, ranging from widespread, non-targeted, global cyber threats to targeted advanced persistent threats. given that our hardware and software products, solutions and services are used in critical infrastructure, these threats could indicate increased risk for our products, services, solutions, manufacturing, and it infrastructure. past global cyber attacks have also been perpetuated by compromising software updates in widely-used software products, increasing the risk that vulnerabilities or malicious content could be inserted into our products. in some cases, malware attacks were spread throughout the supply chain, moving from one company to the next via authorized network connections. our hardware and software products, solutions, and services are used by our direct and indirect customers in applications that may be subject to information theft, tampering, or sabotage. careless or malicious actors could cause a customer's process to be disrupted or could cause equipment to operate in an improper manner that could result in harm to people or property. while we continue to improve the security attributes of our hardware and software products, solutions and services, we can reduce risk, not eliminate it. to a significant extent, the security of our customers' systems depends on how those systems are designed, installed, protected, configured, updated and monitored, and much of this is typically outside our control. in addition, the software supply chain introduces security vulnerabilities into many products across the industry. our business uses it resources on a dispersed, global basis for a wide variety of functions including development, engineering, manufacturing, sales, accounting, and human resources. our vendors, partners, employees and customers have access to, and share, information across multiple locations via various digital technologies. in addition, we rely on partners and vendors, including cloud providers, for a wide range of outsourced activities as part of our internal it infrastructure and our commercial offerings. secure connectivity is important to these ongoing operations. also, our partners and vendors frequently have access to our confidential information as well as confidential information about our customers, employees, and others. we design our security architecture to reduce the risk that a compromise of our partners' infrastructure, for example a cloud platform, could lead to a compromise of our internal systems or customer networks, but this risk cannot be eliminated and vulnerabilities at third parties could result in unknown risk exposure to our business. the current cyber threat environment indicates increased risk for all companies, including those in industrial automation and information. like other global companies, we have experienced cyber threats and incidents, although none have been material or had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. our information security efforts, under the leadership of our chief information security officer and chief product security officer, with the support of the entire management team, include major programs designed to address security governance and risk, product security, identification and protection of critical assets, insider risk, third-party risk, security awareness, and cyber defense operations. we believe these measures reduce, but cannot eliminate, the risk of a cybersecurity incident. any significant security incidents could have an adverse impact on sales, harm our reputation and cause us to incur legal liability and increased costs to address such events and related security concerns. an inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer hardware and software products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new hardware and software products requires high levels of innovation, and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences and emerging technological and broader industry trends, demand for our products could decline. there are inherent risks in our solutions and services businesses. risks inherent in the sale of solutions and services include assuming greater responsibility for successfully delivering projects that meet a particular customer specification, including defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the performance and quality of our subcontractors and suppliers. if we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, we could incur cost overruns, liabilities and other losses that would adversely affect our results of operations. 8 table of contents we rely on our distribution channel for a substantial portion of our sales. in north america, a large percentage of our sales are through distributors. in certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. we depend on the capabilities and competencies of our distributors to sell our hardware and software products, solutions and services and deliver value to our customers. disruptions to our existing distribution channel or the failure of distributors to maintain and develop the appropriate capabilities to sell our hardware and software products, solutions and services could adversely affect our sales. a disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor or other events. intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers. others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal expenses to defend claims could be costly. in addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. our business success depends on attracting, developing, and retaining highly qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees, and the effective implementation of processes and technology to increase employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency. the skills, experience and industry knowledge of our employees significantly benefit our operations and performance. difficulty attracting, developing, and retaining members of our management team and key employees with the necessary expertise, including by offering attractive compensation, benefits, and development opportunities, could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we continuously evaluate, modify, and enhance our internal processes and technologies to increase employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency, and to mitigate failure risks from older technologies currently in use. failure to identify and successfully implement new processes and technologies could add costs and complications to ongoing operations and negatively impact employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency. increasing employee benefit costs could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. one important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and health care benefits. the expenses we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans depend on factors such as changes in market interest rates, the value of plan assets, mortality assumptions and healthcare trend rates. significant unfavorable changes in these factors would increase our expenses. expenses related to employer-funded healthcare benefits depend on laws and regulations, which could change, as well as healthcare cost inflation. an inability to control costs related to employee and retiree benefits could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 9 table of contents strategic transactions and investments risks failure to identify, manage, complete, and integrate strategic transactions may adversely affect our business or we may not achieve the expected benefits of these transactions. as part of our strategy, we may pursue strategic transactions, including acquisitions, joint ventures, investments, other business opportunities and purchases of technology from third parties. in order to be successful, we must identify attractive transaction opportunities, effectively complete the transaction, and manage post-closing matters, such as integration of the acquired business or technology (including related personnel) and cooperation with our joint venture and other strategic partners. we may not be able to identify or complete beneficial transaction opportunities given the intense competition for them. even if we successfully identify and complete such transactions, we may not achieve the expected benefits of such transactions and we may not be able to successfully address risks and uncertainties inherent in such transactions, including: difficulties in integrating the purchased or new operations, technologies, products or services, retaining customers and achieving the expected benefits of the transaction, such as sales increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees or difficulties integrating personnel; legal and compliance issues; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, financial systems, internal and other controls, procedures, policies and information systems; difficulties maintaining relationships with our joint venture and other strategic partners (including as a result of such joint venture and other strategic partners having differing business objectives) and managing disputes with such joint venture and other strategic partners that may arise in connection with our relationships with them; and diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. future strategic transactions and technology investments could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges, and impairment and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. we own common stock in ptc inc. and are exposed to the volatility, liquidity and other risks inherent in holding that stock. we own common stock of ptc inc. (ptc), a nasdaq-listed company, that we acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.0 billion. we present this investment on our consolidated balance sheet at its fair value at the end of each reporting period. the fair value of our shares of ptc common stock (ptc shares) is subject to fluctuation in the future due to the volatility of the stock market, changes in general economic conditions, and the performance of ptc. we recognize all changes in the fair value of the ptc shares (whether realized or unrealized) as gains or losses in our consolidated statement of operations. accordingly, changes in the fair value of the ptc shares can materially impact the earnings we report, which introduces volatility in our earnings that is not associated with the results of our business operations. in particular, significant declines in the fair value of the ptc shares would produce significant declines in our reported earnings. while there is an established trading market for shares of ptc common stock, there are limitations on our ability to dispose of some or all of the ptc shares should we wish to reduce our investment. until july 19, 2021, we are subject to contractual restrictions on our ability to transfer the ptc shares, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, we are subject to certain restrictions on our ability to transfer the ptc shares under the securities laws. further, the reported value of the ptc shares does not necessarily reflect their lowest current market price. if we were forced to sell some or all of the ptc shares in the market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell them at prices equivalent to the value of the ptc shares that we have reported on our consolidated balance sheet, and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. finally, our equity position in ptc is a minority position which exposes us to further risk as we are not able to exert control over ptc. 10 table of contents legal, tax and regulatory risks new legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business. legislative and regulatory action, including those related to corporate income taxes, may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in those countries and other jurisdictions or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. for example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification and labeling laws and regulations. our customers may also be required to comply with such legislative and regulatory requirements. these requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions. changes in these requirements could impact demand for our hardware and software products, solutions and services. compliance with state, federal and foreign privacy regulations, such as the european union's general data protection regulation (gdpr), could increase our operating costs as part of our efforts to protect and safeguard our sensitive data and personal information. failure to maintain information privacy could result in legal liability or reputational harm. claims from taxing authorities could have an adverse effect on our income tax expense and financial condition. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret and comply with the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the uncertainty of how underlying facts may be construed, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to the safety and security of the hardware and software products, solutions and services we sell, employment, contract matters, and environmental remediation. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance proceeds make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution of these lawsuits. our operations are subject to various environmental regulations concerning human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground, and water, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. in connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. in some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible for satisfying those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so. 11 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities as well as derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is an asset of $14.0 million and a liability of $27.5 million at september 30, 2020 . we enter into these contracts with major financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. in 2020 and 2019 , the relative strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact on our sales and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to 2020 levels. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting foreign currency forward exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $10.1 million . we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on these contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value in earnings immediately. there was no impact on earnings due to ineffective hedges in 2020 , 2019 or 2018. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with the hedged exposures and related contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt as of september 30, 2020 , primarily consisted of $23.5 million of interest-bearing loans from schlumberger to sensia due september 30, 2021. the potential increase in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in market interest rates would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of september 30, 2020 and 2019. we have issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, short-term commercial paper obligations as needed. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term and current portion of long-term debt obligations with a carrying value of $1,974.7 million at september 30, 2020 and $2,256.9 million at september 30, 2019 . the fair value of this debt was approximately $2,497.7 million at september 30, 2020 and $2,680.9 million at september 30, 2019 . the potential increase in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 50 basis point decrease in market interest rates would not be significant to our results of operations or financial condition. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners' equity. 45 table of contentsrisk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage in their businesses. the company was incorporated in delaware in 1996 in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, the former rockwell international corporation (ric) contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. 2 in september 2004, we sold our firstpoint contact business. in march 2006, we sold the assets of our electrocraft engineered solutions (electrocraft) business. accordingly, we reflect the results of electrocraft as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. in september 2006, we sold our 50 percent interest in rockwell scientific company llc (rsc). more information regarding the sale of our interest in rsc is contained in note 2 in the financial statements. on january 31, 2007, we divested our dodge mechanical and reliance electric motors and motor repair services businesses. these were the principal businesses of our former power systems operating segment. we sold these businesses to baldor electric company (baldor) for $1.8 billion, comprised of $1.75 billion in cash and approximately 1.6 million shares of baldor common stock. during 2007, we reported an after-tax gain on the sale of $868.2 million ($5.39 per diluted share). the results of operations and gain on sale of these businesses are reported in income from discontinued operations in the financial statements for all periods presented. assets and liabilities sold are classified as assets available for sale and liabilities associated with assets available for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of september 30, 2006. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 6, 2008 (the 2008 proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ( md&amp;a ), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years refer to our fiscal year unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. in 2007, our total sales were $5.0 billion. financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2007, is contained under the caption results of operations in md&amp;a , and in note 18 in the financial statements. architecture &amp; software our architecture &amp; software operating segment recorded sales of $2.2 billion (44 percent of our total sales) in 2007. the architecture &amp; software segment contains all elements of our integrated control and information architecture capable of connecting the customer entire manufacturing enterprise. architecture &amp; software integrated architecture and logix controllers perform multiple types of control and monitoring applications, including discrete, batch, continuous process, drive system, motion and machine safety across various industrial machinery, plants and processes, and supply real time information to supervisory software and plant-wide information systems. architecture and software products include control platforms, software, i/o devices, communication networks, high performance rotary and linear motion control systems, electronic operator interface devices, condition based monitoring systems, sensors, industrial computers and machine safety components. these products are deployed widely across industries to end users and oems to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce manufacturing business risk. the major competitors of our architecture &amp; software operating segment include emerson electric co., mitsubishi corp., omron corp., schneider electric sa and siemens ag. 3 architecture &amp; software products are marketed primarily under the allen-bradley &reg; and rockwell software &reg; brand names. major markets served include food and beverage, automotive, water/wastewater, oil and gas and home and personal care. architecture &amp; software is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio and has operations in north america, europe, middle east and africa, asia-pacific and latin america. control products &amp; solutions our control products &amp; solutions operating segment recorded 2007 sales of $2.8 billion (56 percent of our total sales). the control products &amp; solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products with the customer support and application knowledge necessary to implement an automation or information solution on the plant floor. this comprehensive portfolio includes: low voltage and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, ac/dc variable frequency drives, contactors, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays and timers and condition sensors. value-added packaged solutions, including configured drives, motor control centers and custom engineered panels for oem and end-user applications. automation and information solutions, including custom-engineered hardware and software systems for discrete, process, motion, drives and manufacturing information applications. services designed to help maximize a customer automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including multi-vendor customer technical support and repair, asset management, training and predictive and preventative maintenance. the major competitors of the control products &amp; solutions operating segment include abb ltd, eaton corporation, emerson electric co., general electric, honeywell international, invensys, schneider electric sa and siemens ag. control products &amp; solutions products are marketed primarily under the allen bradley &reg; brand name. major markets served include food and beverage, automotive, oil and gas, mining and home and personal care. control products &amp; solutions is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin and has operations in north america, europe, middle east and africa, asia-pacific and latin america. geographic information in 2007, sales to customers in the united states accounted for 54 percent of our total sales. our principal markets outside of the united states are in canada, italy, china, the united kingdom, germany, brazil, australia, korea and france. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside of the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 18 in the financial statements. competition depending on the product or service involved, our competitors range from large diversified businesses that sell products outside of industrial automation, to smaller companies specializing in niche products and services. factors that influence our competitive position are our broad product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, large installed base, established distribution network, quality of products and services, price and global presence. 4 distribution in north america, we sell our products primarily through independent distributors that typically do not carry products that compete with allen-bradley &reg; products. we sell large systems and service offerings principally through a direct sales force, though opportunities are sometimes sourced through distributors or system integrators. outside the united states, we sell products through a combination of direct sales, sales through distributors and sales through system integrators. research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $143.1 million, $148.5 million, and $128.0 million, respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2007, 2006, or 2005. employees at september 30, 2007 we had approximately 20,000 employees. approximately 10,500 were employed in the united states, and, of these employees, about three percent were represented by various local or national unions. raw materials and supplies we purchase many items of equipment, components and materials used to produce our products from others. the raw materials essential to the conduct of each of our business segments generally are available at competitive prices. although we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog at september 30 was (in millions): 2007 2006 architecture &amp; software $ 119.0 $ 107.6 control products &amp; solutions 796.7 525.4 $ 915.7 $ 633.0 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 17 in the financial statements. see also item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. 5 the company name and its registered trademark rockwell automation &reg; is important to each of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as allen-bradley &reg; , a-b &reg; and ics triplex for electronic controls and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software &reg; for our software products. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal capital spending patterns of our customers due to their annual capital budgeting processes and their working schedules combined with seasonal changes in the composition of the products and services our customers purchase. available information we maintain an internet site at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the securities and exchange commission (sec). all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available at our internet site. these guidelines and charters are also available in print to any shareowner upon request. the information contained on and linked from our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. the certifications of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer required pursuant to sections 302 and 906 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 are included as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k and were included as exhibits to each of our quarterly reports on form 10-q filed during 2007. our chief executive officer certified to the new york stock exchange (nyse) on march 8, 2007 pursuant to section 303a.12 of the nyse listing standards, that he was not aware of any violation by the company of the nyse corporate governance listing standards as of that date. item 1a. risk factors our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. these and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. we generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the united states. approximately 46 percent of our revenues in 2007 were outside of the u.s. future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on continued growth in our non-u.s. sales. numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-u.s. operations. these risks and uncertainties include political and economic instability, changes in local governmental laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. international transactions may also involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs, including risks of non-compliance with u.s. and local laws affecting our activities abroad. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. while these factors and their impacts are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. 6 an inability to anticipate changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. general economic, business or industry conditions may result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of global industrial production. as economic activity slows down or credit markets tighten, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, resulting in decreased demand for our products. if this occurs, our revenues and profitability may be negatively affected. information technology infrastructure failures could significantly affect our business. we depend heavily on our information technology infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. if we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important it application, or an intentional disruption of our it systems, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. we are implementing a global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that will redesign and deploy new processes, organization structures and a common information system over a period of several years. our first significant roll-outs of the system occurred at several of our u.s. locations in fiscal 2007, and will continue at additional locations in 2008. as we implement the erp system, the new system may not perform as expected. this could have an adverse effect on our business. there are additional risks in our growing solutions businesses. risks inherent in the sale of systems and solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the efficiency and quality of our subcontractors. our inability to control, manage, and mitigate these risks could adversely affect our results of operations. the global industrial automation power, control and information products and services industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects, including pricing, product performance, quality, developing integrated systems and applications that address the business challenges faced by our customers, and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. price competition in our served markets is intense. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion and lower revenues and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. a disruption to our distribution channel could have an adverse effect on our operating results. in the united states and canada, approximately 85 percent of our sales are through a limited number of third party distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to the existing channel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. a disruption could be caused by the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of the distributor, or other events. 7 potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims) could adversely affect our business. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment and contract matters. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. the inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business and our customers. we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the loss of patents or licenses used in principal portions of our business may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. in addition, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we regularly provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely on third party suppliers, which creates certain risks and uncertainties. our manufacturing processes require that we buy a high volume of equipment, components and materials from third party suppliers. our reliance on these suppliers involves certain risks, including: the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates or other factors; poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; and a shortage of components or materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and delivery capabilities, which could reduce sales and profitability. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues. potential liabilities and costs for environmental remediation could adversely affect our business. our operations, both in the united states and abroad, are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility for the cleanup or other remediation of contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities related to our current and divested businesses to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the 8 subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. in connection with the divestiture of certain businesses in prior years, we retained tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds for periods before the divestitures. as a result, from time to time, we may be required to make payments related to tax matters associated with those divested businesses. our competitiveness depends on successfully executing on our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be near our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue with our initiative to invest in actions to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the united states and other governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or disrupt our supply chain. our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could cause us to incur debt, dilution, contingent liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. at september 30, 2007, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $173.0 million with original maturities of three days at a weighted average interest rate of 5.1 percent; at september 30, 2006, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $219.0 million with original maturities of three days at a weighted average interest rate of 5.4 percent. the weighted average interest rate on the commercial paper borrowings was 5.3 percent during 2007 and 4.8 percent during 2006. as these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. in 2007 and 2006, a 10 percent increase in average market interest rates would not have had a significant effect on our results of operations. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $753.9 million at september 30, 2007 and $748.2 million at september 30, 2006. the fair value of this debt was $777.3 million at september 30, 2007 and $803.7 million at september 30, 2006. the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners equity. in september 2002, we entered into an interest rate swap contract that effectively converted our $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15% notes, payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based on six-month libor. the floating rate was 7.80 percent at september 30, 2007. a hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest rates would not be significant to the overall fair value of the swap or our results of operations. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and 34 transactions denominated in foreign currencies. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage our exposure on transactions denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. in addition, we enter into contracts to hedge certain intercompany transactions forecasted to occur within the next three years. contracts are executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. we do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to u.s. dollars. a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value in earnings immediately. at september 30, 2007 and 2006, we had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily consisting of contracts relating to the euro, british pound sterling, swiss franc, singapore dollar and south korean won. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. the following table indicates the total u.s. dollar equivalents (in millions) of net transactional foreign exchange exposure related to (short) long contracts outstanding by currency: september 30, 2007 2006 euro $ (427.8 ) $ (399.8 ) british pound sterling (273.0 ) (35.7 ) swiss franc 59.5 12.7 singapore dollar (55.6 ) south korean won (15.1 ) (21.5 ) other 0.7 1.5 total $ (711.3 ) $ (442.8 ) all of the contracts included in the table above will have offsetting effects from actual transactions that have occurred or will occur in the future. we designated certain of these contracts related to intercompany transactions forecasted to occur through october 2010 as cash flow hedges under sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . the remaining foreign exchange contracts offset actual underlying receivables and payables in our consolidated balance sheet. 35risk factors for more information. item 1. business general rockwell automation, inc. (the company or rockwell automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. our products and services are designed to meet our customers needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce manufacturing business risk. the company was incorporated in delaware in 1996 in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on december 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the a&amp;d business) to the boeing company (boeing). in the reorganization, the former rockwell international corporation (ric) contributed all of its businesses, other than the a&amp;d business, to the company and distributed all capital stock of the company to ric shareowners. boeing then acquired ric. ric was incorporated in 1928. 2 in march 2006, we sold the assets of our electrocraft engineered solutions (electrocraft) business. accordingly, we reflect the results of electrocraft as a discontinued operation for all periods presented. in september 2006, we sold our 50 percent interest in rockwell scientific company llc (rsc). more information regarding the sale of our interest in rsc is contained in note 2 in the financial statements. on january 31, 2007, we divested our dodge mechanical and reliance electric motors and motor repair services businesses. these were the principal businesses of our former power systems operating segment. we sold these businesses to baldor electric company (baldor) for $1.8 billion, comprised of $1.75 billion in cash and approximately 1.6 million shares of baldor common stock. during 2007, we reported an after-tax gain on the sale of $868.2 million ($5.39 per diluted share). the results of operations and gain on sale of these businesses are reported in income from discontinued operations in the financial statements for all periods presented. as used herein, the terms we , us , our , the company or rockwell automation include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. information included in this annual report on form 10-k refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. whenever an item of this annual report on form 10-k refers to information in our proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareowners to be held on february 4, 2009 (the 2009 proxy statement), or to information under specific captions in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (md&amp;a), or in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (the financial statements), the information is incorporated in that item by reference. all date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated. operating segments we have two operating segments: architecture &amp; software and control products &amp; solutions. in 2008, our total sales were $5.7 billion. financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended september 30, 2008, is contained under the caption results of operations in md&amp;a, and in note 18 in the financial statements. our architecture &amp; software operating segment is headquartered in mayfield heights, ohio, and our control products &amp; solutions operating segment is headquartered in milwaukee, wisconsin. both operating segments have operations in north america, europe, middle east and africa, asia pacific and latin america. architecture &amp; software our architecture &amp; software operating segment recorded sales of $2.4 billion (42 percent of our total sales) in 2008. the architecture &amp; software segment contains all of the elements of our integrated control and information architecture capable of controlling the customer plant floor and connecting with their manufacturing enterprise. architecture &amp; software has a broad portfolio of products, including: control platforms that perform multiple control disciplines and monitoring of applications, including discrete, batch, continuous process, drives control, motion control and machine safety control. our platform products include programmable logic controllers, electronic operator interface devices, electronic input/output devices, communication and networking products, industrial computers and condition based monitoring systems. the information-enabled logix controllers provide integrated multi-discipline control that is modular and scaleable. software products that include configuration and visualization software used to operate and supervise control platforms, advanced process control software and manufacturing execution software (mes) that addresses information needs between the factory floor and a customer enterprise business system. examples of mes applications are production scheduling, asset management, tracking, genealogy and manufacturing business intelligence. other architecture &amp; software products, including rotary and linear motion control products, sensors and machine safety components. 3 the major competitors of our architecture &amp; software operating segment include siemens ag, mitsubishi corp., abb ltd, honeywell international inc., schneider electric sa and emerson electric co. architecture &amp; software products are marketed primarily under the allen-bradley &reg; , rockwell software &reg; and factorytalk &reg; brand names. major markets served include food and beverage, automotive, oil and gas, metals and mining, and home, health and beauty. control products &amp; solutions our control products &amp; solutions operating segment recorded 2008 sales of $3.3 billion (58 percent of our total sales). the control products &amp; solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products with the customer support and application knowledge necessary to implement an automation or information solution on the plant floor. this comprehensive portfolio includes: low voltage and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, ac/dc variable frequency drives, contactors, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays and timers and condition sensors. value-added packaged solutions, including configured drives, motor control centers and custom engineered panels for oem and end-user applications. automation and information solutions, including custom-engineered hardware and software systems for discrete, process, motion, drives and manufacturing information applications. services designed to help maximize a customer automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including multi-vendor customer technical support and repair, asset management, training and predictive and preventative maintenance. the major competitors of our control products &amp; solutions operating segment include siemens ag, abb ltd, schneider electric sa, honeywell international inc. and emerson electric co. control products &amp; solutions products are marketed primarily under the allen bradley &reg; and ics triplex brand names. major markets served include food and beverage, oil and gas, metals and mining, automotive, and pulp and paper. geographic information in 2008, sales to customers in the united states accounted for 50 percent of our total sales. our principal markets outside of the united states are in canada, the united kingdom, italy, china, brazil and germany. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside of the united states. sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in note 18 in the financial statements. competition depending on the product or service involved, our competitors range from large diversified businesses that sell products outside of industrial automation, to smaller companies specializing in niche products and services. factors that influence our competitive position are our broad product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, large installed base, established distribution network, quality of products and services, price and global presence. distribution in the united states and canada, we sell our products primarily through independent distributors that typically do not carry products that compete with allen-bradley &reg; products. we sell large systems and service offerings principally through a direct sales force, though opportunities are sometimes identified through distributors. outside the united states and canada, we sell products through a combination of direct sales and sales through distributors. sales to our largest distributor in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were between 9 and 10 percent of our total sales. 4 research and development our research and development spending for the years ended september 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $191.3 million, $166.9 million, and $148.5 million, respectively. customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2008, 2007 or 2006. employees at september 30, 2008 we had approximately 21,000 employees. approximately 9,800 were employed in the united states, and, of these employees, about three percent were represented by various local or national unions. raw materials and supplies we purchase many items of equipment, components and materials used to produce our products from others. the raw materials essential to the conduct of each of our business segments generally are available at competitive prices. although we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers. backlog our total order backlog at september 30 was (in millions): 2008 2007 architecture &amp; software $ 161.2 $ 119.0 control products &amp; solutions 872.6 796.7 $ 1,033.8 $ 915.7 backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2009 were approximately $97.2 million as of september 30, 2008. environmental protection requirements information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in note 17 in the financial statements. see also item 3. legal proceedings . patents, licenses and trademarks we own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. we believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. while in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. see item 1a. risk factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property. the company name and its registered trademark rockwell automation &reg; is important to each of our business segments. in addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as allen-bradley &reg; , a-b &reg; and ics triplex tm for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and rockwell software &reg; and factorytalk &reg; for our software products. seasonality our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. however, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules. 5 available information we maintain an internet site at http://www.rockwellautomation.com . our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and section 16 reports on forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the securities and exchange commission (sec). all reports we file with the sec are also available free of charge via edgar through the sec website at http://www.sec.gov . our guidelines on corporate governance and charters for our board committees are also available at our internet site. these guidelines and charters are also available in print to any shareowner upon request. the information contained on and linked from our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k. the certifications of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer required pursuant to sections 302 and 906 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 are included as exhibits to this annual report on form 10-k and were included as exhibits to each of our quarterly reports on form 10-q filed during 2008. our chief executive officer certified to the new york stock exchange (nyse) on march 6, 2008 pursuant to section 303a.12 of the nyse listing standards, that he was not aware of any violation by the company of the nyse corporate governance listing standards as of that date. item 1a. risk factors our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. these and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. we generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business outside of the united states. approximately 50 percent of our revenues in 2008 were outside of the u.s. future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on continued growth in our non-u.s. sales. numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-u.s. operations. these risks and uncertainties include political and economic instability, changes in local governmental laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. international transactions may also involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs, including risks of non-compliance with u.s. and local laws affecting our activities abroad. in addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates. while these factors and their impacts are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. an inability to anticipate changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products. our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. if we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. adverse changes in global or regional economic, business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of global or regional industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve, including, without limitation, food and beverage, home and 6 personal care, life sciences, oil and gas, mining, aggregates, cement, metals, water/wastewater, forest products and transportation. as economic activity slows or credit markets tighten, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products and negatively affect our business. we intend to fund our future uses of cash, which may include repayments of short-term loans, repurchases of common stock, dividends to shareowners, capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses and additional contributions to our pension plans, with a combination of existing cash balances, cash generated by operating activities, commercial paper borrowings or a new issuance of debt or issuance of other securities. our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. if our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase and our operating results may be adversely affected. a global recession and continued worldwide credit constraints could adversely affect us. recent global economic events, including concerns over the tightening of credit markets and failures or material business deterioration of financial institutions and other entities, have resulted in a heightened concern regarding a potential global recession. if these conditions continue or worsen, we could experience potential declines in revenues, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers. information technology infrastructure failures could significantly affect our business. we depend heavily on our information technology (it) infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. if we experience a problem that impairs this infrastructure, such as a computer virus, a problem with the functioning of an important it application, or an intentional disruption of our it systems, the resulting disruptions could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on our business in the ordinary course. any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns. we are implementing a global enterprise resource planning (erp) system that will redesign and deploy new processes, organization structures and a common information system over a period of several years. significant roll-outs of the system occurred at several of our u.s. locations and certain locations in mexico in 2007 and 2008, and are scheduled to continue at additional locations in 2009 and beyond. as we implement the erp system, the new system may not perform as expected. this could have an adverse effect on our business. there are inherent risks in our growing solutions businesses. risks inherent in the sale of systems and solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the efficiency and quality of our subcontractors. our inability to control, manage, and mitigate these risks could adversely affect our results of operations. the global industrial automation power, control and information products and services industry is highly competitive. we face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects, including product performance, quality, developing integrated systems and applications that address the business challenges faced by our customers, pricing and customer service. the relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. we seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers business problems. if we fail to keep pace with technological changes or provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion and lower revenues and margins. we expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. 7 a disruption to our distribution channel could have an adverse effect on our operating results. in the united states and canada, approximately 85 percent of our sales are through a limited number of third party distributors. while we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to the existing channel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. a disruption could be caused by the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of the distributor, or other events. potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims) could adversely affect our business. various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment and contract matters. we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. the uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution. the inability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property could harm our business and our customers. we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. the loss of patents or licenses used in principal portions of our business may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant. in addition, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. we regularly provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could have an adverse effect on our business. we rely on third party suppliers for the purchase of raw materials, including commodities, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business. our manufacturing processes require that we buy a high volume of equipment, components and raw materials, including commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel, from third party suppliers. our reliance on these suppliers involves certain risks, including: poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products; the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors; we may not be able recover any increase in costs for these purchases through price increases to our customers; and a shortage of components, commodities or other materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and delivery capabilities, which could reduce sales and profitability. any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. we also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues. potential liabilities and costs for environmental remediation could adversely affect our business. our operations, both in the united states and abroad, are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control 8 of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. our financial responsibility for the cleanup or other remediation of contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. we have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant. we must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities related to our current and divested businesses to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position. we conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. in connection with the divestiture of certain businesses in prior years, we retained tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds for periods before the divestitures. as a result, from time to time, we may be required to make payments related to tax matters associated with those divested businesses. our competitiveness depends on successfully executing on our globalization and cost productivity initiatives. our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be near our customers and identified growth opportunities. localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. these activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. in addition, we continue with our initiative to invest in actions to reduce our cost structure. the failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations. natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, and the actions taken by the united states and other governments in response to such events could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products, or disrupt our supply chain. our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key employees. their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us. we have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including: difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames; 9 loss of key employees of the acquired business; difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business concerns. future acquisitions could cause us to incur debt, dilution, contingent liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk during the normal course of business from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. we manage exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating and financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. we sometimes use interest rate swap contracts to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in foreign currencies. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage our exposure on transactions denominated in currencies other than the applicable functional currency. in addition, we enter into contracts to hedge certain third-party sales and intercompany transactions forecasted to occur within the next two years. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts is a liability of $24.6 million and an asset of $11.2 million at september 30, 2008. we enter into these contracts with global financial institutions that we believe to be creditworthy. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. we do not hedge our exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from local currency to u.s. dollars. in 2008, the relative weakening of the u.s. dollar versus foreign currencies had a favorable impact on our revenues and results of operations. while future changes in foreign currency exchange rates are difficult to predict, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected if the u.s. dollar strengthens. certain of our locations have assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to offset the transaction gains or losses associated with some of these assets and liabilities. for such assets and liabilities without offsetting forward foreign exchange contracts, a 10 percent adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would reduce our pre-tax income by approximately $10 million. we record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose for holding them. derivatives that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through earnings. for derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. we recognize the ineffective portion of a derivative change in fair value in earnings immediately. the ineffective portion was not significant in 2008 and 2007. at september 30, 2008 and 2007, we had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily consisting of contracts relating to the swiss franc, euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar and 36 singapore dollar. the use of these contracts allows us to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. the following table indicates the total u.s. dollar equivalents (in millions) of net transactional foreign exchange exposure related to (short) long contracts outstanding by currency: september 30, 2008 2007 euro $ (211.6 ) $ (427.8 ) british pound sterling (154.7 ) (273.0 ) swiss franc 237.1 59.5 canadian dollar (63.7 ) singapore dollar (26.8 ) (55.6 ) south korean won (15.2 ) (15.1 ) polish zloty (8.6 ) other (0.4 ) 0.7 total $ (243.9 ) $ (711.3 ) all of the contracts included in the table above will have offsetting effects from actual transactions that have occurred or will occur in the future. we designated certain of these contracts related to third-party sales or intercompany transactions forecasted to occur through october 2010 as cash flow hedges under sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . the remaining foreign exchange contracts offset actual underlying receivables and payables in our consolidated balance sheet. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by normal operating activities, we use a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations. our short-term debt obligations relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. at september 30, 2008, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $100.0 million with remaining maturities of six days at a weighted average interest rate of 2.25 percent; at september 30, 2007, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $173.0 million with remaining maturities of three days at a weighted average interest rate of 5.1 percent. the weighted average interest rate on our commercial paper borrowings was 2.9 percent during 2008 and 5.3 percent during 2007. as these obligations mature, we issued, and anticipate continuing to issue, additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. changes in market interest rates on commercial paper borrowings affect our results of operations. in 2008 and 2007, a 10 percent increase in average interest rates would not have had a significant effect on our results of operations. in 2008, a 100 percent increase in average market interest rates would have increased our interest expense by $7.9 million. we use a 100 percent hypothetical fluctuation as our actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2008. we had outstanding fixed rate long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $904.4 million at september 30, 2008 and $753.9 million at september 30, 2007. the fair value of this debt was $883.0 million at september 30, 2008 and $777.3 million at september 30, 2007. the potential reduction in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase our outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or shareowners equity. 37