risk factors 13 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2011 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. as previously disclosed in our 2010 annual report on form 10-k, we reorganized our divisional operations by combining the former flowserve pump division ("fpd") and former flow solutions division ("fsd") into the flow solutions group ("fsg"), effective january 1, 2010. fsg was divided into two reportable segments: fsg engineered product division and fsg industrial product division. flow control division was not affected. we have retrospectively adjusted prior period financial information to reflect our current reporting structure. we conduct our operations through three business segments based on type of product and how we manage the business: fsg engineered product division ("epd") for long lead-time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems and replacement parts and related services; 1 table of contents fsg industrial product division ("ipd") for pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems and related products and services; and flow control division ("fcd") for engineered and industrial valves, control valves, actuators and controls and related services. our business segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and have a high number of common customers. these segments also have complementary product offerings and technologies that are often combined in applications which provide us a net competitive advantage. our segments also benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. strategies our overarching objective is to grow our position as a product and integrated solutions provider in the flow control industry. this objective includes continuing to sell products by building on existing sales relationships and leveraging the power of our portfolio of products and services. it also includes delivering specific end user solutions that help customers attain their business goals by ensuring maximum reliability at a decreased cost of ownership. we seek to drive increasing enterprise value by using strategies that are well communicated throughout the company. these strategies include: disciplined profitable growth, customer intimacy, innovation and portfolio management, strategic localization, operational excellence, employee focus and sustainable business model. the key elements of these strategies are outlined below. disciplined profitable growth disciplined profitable growth is an important strategy focused on growing revenues profitably from our existing portfolio of products and services, as well as through the development or acquisition of new customer-driven products and services. an overarching goal is to focus on opportunities that can maximize the organic growth from existing customers and to evaluate potential new customer-partnering initiatives that maximize the capture of the product's total life cycle. we believe we are the largest major pump, valve and seal company that can offer customers a differentiated option of flow management products and services across a broad portfolio, as well as offer additional options that include any combination of products and solution support packages. we also seek to continue to review our substantial installed pump, valve and seal base as a means to expand the aftermarket parts and services business, as customers are increasingly using third-party aftermarket parts and service providers to reduce their fixed costs and improve profitability. to date, the aftermarket business has provided us with a steady source of revenues and cash flows at higher margins than original equipment sales. aftermarket sales in 2011 represented approximately 41% of total sales, as compared with approximately 39% of total sales for the same period in 2010. we are building on our established presence through an extensive global qrc network to provide the immediate parts, service and technical support required to effectively manage and win the aftermarket business created from our installed base. customer intimacy customer intimacy defines our approach to being prepared to serve the needs of our current and future customers better than our competition. through our ongoing relationships with our customers, we seek to gain a rich understanding of their business objectives and how our portfolio of offerings can help them succeed. we collaborate with our customers on the front end engineering and design work to drive flow management solutions that effectively generate the desired business outcomes. as we progress through original equipment projects, we work closely with our customers to understand and prepare for the long-term support needs for the operations with the intent of maximizing total life cycle value for our customers' investments. we seek to capture additional aftermarket business by creating mutually beneficial opportunities for us and our customers through sourcing and maintenance alliance programs where we provide all or an agreed-upon portion of customers' parts and servicing needs. these customer alliances enable us to develop long-term professional relationships with our customers and serve as an effective platform for introducing new products and services to our customers and generating additional sales. innovation and portfolio management the ongoing management of our portfolio of products and services is critical to our success. as part of managing our portfolio, we continue to rationalize our portfolio of products and services to ensure alignment with changing market requirements. we also continue to invest in research and development ("r&amp;d") to expand the scope of our product offerings and our deployment of advanced technologies. the infusion of advanced technologies into new products and services continues to play a critical role in the ongoing evolution of our product portfolio. our objective is to improve the percentage of revenue derived from new products as a function of overall sales, utilizing technological innovation to improve overall product life cycle and total cost of ownership for our customers. 2 table of contents we employ a robust portfolio management and project execution process to seek out new product and technology opportunities, evaluate their potential return on investment and allocate resources to their development on a prioritized basis. each project is reviewed on a routine basis for such performance measures as time to market, net present value, budget adherence, technical and commercial risk and compliance with customer requirements. technical skill sets and knowledge are deployed across business unit boundaries to ensure that we bring the best capabilities to bear for each project. collectively, the r&amp;d portfolio is a key to our ability to differentiate our product and service offerings from other competitors in our target markets. we are focused on exploring and commercializing new technologies. in many of our research areas, we are teaming with universities and experts in the appropriate scientific fields to accelerate the required learning and to shorten the development time in leveraging the value of applied technologies in our products and services. our intent is to be a market leader in the application of advanced technology to improve product performance and return on investment for our customers. predictive diagnostics and asset management continue to be the biggest areas of effort for us across all our divisions. building on the strength of our valvesight and technology enabled asset management solutions introduced in late 2008, we have continued to deploy our diagnostics capabilities into more devices and expand on the number of host control systems and third party solutions with which we can achieve interoperability. these capabilities continue to provide a key source of competitive advantage in the market place and are saving our customers time and money in keeping their operations running. we continually evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investment opportunities to broaden our product portfolio, service capabilities, geographic presence and operational capabilities to meet the growing needs of our customers. we evaluate all investment opportunities through a decision filtering process to ensure a good strategic, financial and cultural fit. in 2011, our acquisition activities focused on adjacent technology and product capabilities. effective october 28, 2011 , we acquired for inclusion in epd, 100% of lawrence pumps, inc. ("lpi"), a privately-owned, united states ("u.s.") based pump manufacturer, in a share purchase for cash of $89.6 million . lpi specializes in the design, development and manufacture of engineered centrifugal slurry pumps for critical services within the petroleum refining, petrochemical, pulp and paper and energy markets. in addition, in a separate and unrelated transaction, we acquired wireless technology solutions to allow us to offer an efficient and economical means of monitoring equipment and processes in tough industrial environments such as oil and gas, chemical, power generation and related industries, which will further enhance our product capabilities. strategic localization strategic localization describes our global growth strategy. we recognize that as a multi-national company it will take more than a few years to become truly global. therefore, our strategy focuses on advancing our presence appropriately in geographies deemed to be critical to our future success as a company. this business strategy focuses on the following areas: expanding our global presence to capture business in developing geographic market areas; utilizing low-cost sourcing opportunities to remain competitive in the global economy; and attracting and retaining the global intellectual capital required to support our growth plans in new geographical areas. we believe there are attractive opportunities in international markets, particularly in china, india, the middle east, russia, africa and latin america, and we intend to continue to utilize our global presence and strategically invest to further penetrate these markets. in the aftermarket services business, we seek to strategically add qrc sites in order to provide rapid response, fast delivery and field repair on a global scale for our customers. in 2011, we added six qrcs, expanding our ability to effectively deliver aftermarket support globally. we believe that future success will be supported by investments made to establish indigenous operations to effectively serve the local market while taking advantage of low-cost manufacturing, competent engineering and strategic sourcing where practical. we believe that this positions us well to support our global customers from project conception through commissioning and throughout the life of their operations. we continue to develop and increase our manufacturing, engineering and sourcing functions in lower-cost regions and emerging markets such as india, china, mexico, latin america, the middle east and eastern europe as we drive higher value-add from our supply base of materials and components and satisfy local content requirements. in 2011, these lower-cost regions supplied our divisions with direct materials ranging from 17% to 40% of divisional spending. operational excellence the operational excellence strategy encapsulates ongoing programs that work to drive increased customer fulfillment and yield internal productivity. this initiative includes: driving improved customer fulfillment through metrics such as on-time delivery, cost reduction, quality, cycle time reduction and warranty cost reduction as a percentage of sales; 3 table of contents continuing to develop a culture of continuous improvement that delivers maximum productivity and cost efficiencies; and implementing global functional competencies to drive standardized processes. we seek to increase our operational efficiency through our continuous improvement process ("cip") initiative, which utilizes tools such as value analysis, value engineering, six sigma methodology, lean manufacturing and capacity management to improve quality and processes, reduce product cycle times and lower costs. recognizing that employees are our most valuable resource in achieving operational excellence goals, we have instituted cip training tailored to maximize the impact on our business. to date, approximately 1,600 active employees are cip-trained or certified as "green belts," "black belts" or "master black belts," and are deployed on cip projects throughout our company in operations, as well as in the front office of the business. as a result of the cip initiative, we have developed and implemented processes to reduce our engineering and manufacturing process cycle time, improve on-time delivery and service response time, optimize inventory levels and reduce costs. we have also experienced success in sharing and applying best practices achieved in one business segment and deploying those ideas to other segments of the business. we continue to rationalize existing enterprise resource planning ("erp") systems onto six strategic erp systems. going forward, these six strategic erp systems will be maintained as core systems with standard tool sets, and will be enhanced as needed to meet the growing needs of the business in areas such as e-commerce, back office optimization and export compliance. further investment in non-strategic erp systems will be limited to compliance matters and conversion to strategic erp systems. we also seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on management of accounts receivable and inventory. see further discussion in the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" of this annual report. employee focus we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: institutionalizing our succession planning along with our leadership competencies and performance management capabilities, with a focus on key positions and critical talent pools; utilizing these capabilities to drive employee engagement through our training initiatives and leadership development programs and facilitate our cross-divisional and functional development assignments; developing talent acquisition programs such as our engineering recruitment program to address critical talent needs to support our emerging markets and global growth; capturing the intellectual capital in the current workforce, disseminating it throughout our company and sharing it with customers as a competitive advantage; creating a total compensation program that provides our associates with equitable opportunities that are competitive and linked to business and individual performance while promoting employee behavior consistent with our code of business conduct and risk tolerance; and building a diverse and globally inclusive organization with a strong ethical and compliance culture based on transparency and trust. we continue to focus on training through the distribution of electronic learning packages in multiple languages for our code of business conduct, workplace harassment, facility safety, anti-bribery, export compliance and other regulatory and compliance programs. we continue to drive our training and leadership development programs through the deployment of general management development, manager competencies and a series of multi-lingual "course-in-a-box" programs that focus on enhancing people management skills. sustainable business model the sustainable business model initiative is focused on all of the areas that have the potential of adversely affecting our reputation, limiting our financial flexibility or creating unnecessary risk for any of our stakeholders. we proactively administer an enterprise risk management program with regular reviews of high-level matters with our board of directors. we work with our capital sourcing partners to ensure that our credit facilities and terms are appropriately aligned with our business strategy. we also train our associates on and monitor matters of a legal or ethical nature to support understanding and compliance on a global basis. 4 table of contents competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand, and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the domestic and global economic environments in 2011 and current forecasts for 2012, pricing was and may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in each of our three business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large and well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies who produce low-cost replications of spare parts. in the oil and gas industry, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, and our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. in other industries, the competitors for aftermarket services tend to be local independent repair shops and low-cost replicators. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their inventory. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital expenditure cycle. new product development we spent $35.0 million , $29.5 million and $29.4 million during 2011 , 2010 and 2009 , respectively, on r&amp;d initiatives. our r&amp;d group consists of engineers involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. additionally, we sponsor consortium programs for research with various universities and jointly conduct limited development work with certain vendors, licensees and customers. we believe current expenditures are adequate to sustain our ongoing and necessary future r&amp;d activities. in addition, we work closely with our customers on customer-sponsored research activities to help execute their r&amp;d initiatives in connection with our products and services. new product development in each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading engineering, procurement and construction firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas; chemical; power generation; water management; and a number of other industries that are collectively referred to as "general industries." no individual customer 5 table of contents accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2011 revenues. customer information relating to each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we receive advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or result of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials are purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. we are a vertically-integrated manufacturer of certain pump and valve products. certain corrosion-resistant castings for our pumps and valves are manufactured at our foundries. other metal castings are either manufactured at our foundries or purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. employees and labor relations we have approximately 16,000 employees globally. in the u.s., a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our pump service center located in cleveland, ohio, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our foundry located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, sweden and the united kingdom. we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounts for more than 10% of our revenues. environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. 6 table of contents however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at seven superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these seven sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $365.8 million in 2011 , $300.3 million in 2010 and $339.6 million in 2009 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. we voluntarily self-disclosed to applicable u.s. governmental authorities the results of an audit of our compliance with u.s. export control laws and, in september 2011, entered into settlement agreements with u.s. governmental authorities that resolved in full all matters contained in our voluntary self-disclosures. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2011 , 2010 and 2009 . fsg engineered product division our largest business segment is epd, through which we design, manufacture, distribute and service engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and related equipment. the business primarily consists of long lead-time, highly engineered, custom configured products, which require extensive test requirements and superior project management skills. epd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our worldwide sales force and our regional service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured at 28 plants worldwide, nine of which are located in europe, 11 in north america, four in asia pacific and four in latin america. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in china, india, japan, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support low-cost sourcing initiatives and capacity demands for other markets. 7 table of contents epd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our epd products and globally recognized brands: epd product types between bearings pumps overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems multiphase gas barrier seals reciprocating dry-running seals screw specialty products nuclear pumps power recovery dweer nuclear seals power recovery hydroturbine cryogenic pumps energy recovery devices cryogenic liquid expander cvp concrete volute pumps hydraulic decoking systems wireless transmitters api slurry pumps epd brand names bw seals lawrence byron jackson lifecycle advantage calder energy recovery devices niigata worthington cameron qrc durametallic pacific fedd wireless pacific weits five star seal pac-seal flowserve readyseal flowstar united centrifugal gaspac western land roller idp wilson-snyder interseal worthington jeumont-schneider worthington-simpson epd services we provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 120 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 41 countries. our epd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning, repair, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of epd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. epd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow, power and pressure) and under more extreme conditions beyond the level of traditional technology. we continue to develop innovations that improve product performance and our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically targeting pipeline, off-shore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. the emergence of extreme pressure applications prompted the development of an advanced stage 8 table of contents design and construction of high pressure test capability necessary to validate the technology prior to introduction into the market. successful completion of the multiphase testing, as part of the subsea product development, validated our design predictions and established the baseline for future advances in subsea and land-based designs of this product. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we have been developing new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the modern nuclear power generation plant. in addition to nuclear pump product development, we have focused development efforts on an advanced seal design required to accommodate upset conditions recently identified by the nuclear industry. as calder ag ("calder") is now integrated into the product family, investment in work exchanger technology has led to development of advanced analytical methods for predicting performance and application on a new rotating valve design. this advanced technology is expected to improve our competitive position in the reverse osmosis water plant energy recovery application. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements in coke cutting technology, nozzle design and auxiliary equipment improvements, as well as creation of an automated cutting system to improve operator safety. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. application of advanced computational fluid dynamics methods utilizing unsteady flow analysis led to the development of an advanced inlet chamber and impeller vane design for high energy injection water pumps. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. in 2011, epd continued to advance our technology advantage platform through the integrated solutions organization ("iso"). this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our asset management and service capabilities for our end user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. epd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading engineering, procurement and construction firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and somewhat mitigates the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. epd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with hundreds of competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx corp.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; and weir group plc. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request through design, engineering, manufacturing, testing and delivery. epd backlog epd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2011 was $1.4 billion (including $ 19.9 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $1.4 billion (including $25.5 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2010 . we expect to ship 85% of december 31, 2011 backlog during 2012 . 9 table of contents fsg industrial product division through ipd we design, manufacture, distribute and service pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems, including submersible motors, for industrial markets. our globalized operating platform, low-cost sourcing and continuous improvement initiatives are essential aspects of this business. ipd's standardized, general purpose pump products are primarily utilized by the oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 12 manufacturing facilities, three of which are located in the u.s. and six in europe. ipd operates 21 qrcs worldwide, including 11 sites in europe and four in the u.s., including those co-located in manufacturing facilities. ipd products we manufacture approximately 40 different active types of pumps available in a wide range of metal alloys and non-metallics with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. the following is a summary list of our ipd products and globally recognized brands: ipd pump product types overhung between bearings chemical process ansi and iso single case axially split industrial process single case radially split slurry and solids handling specialty products vertical molten salt vtp pump wet pit submersible pump deep well submersible motor thruster slurry and solids handling geothermal deepwell sump barge pump positive displacement gear ipd brand names aldrich sier bath durco tkl idp western land roller pacific worthington pleuger worthington-simpson scienco ipd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force and our regional service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. we provide an array of aftermarket services including product installation and commissioning services, spare parts, repairs, re-rate and upgrade solutions, advanced diagnostics and maintenance solutions through our global network of qrcs. ipd new product development our ipd development projects target product feature enhancements, design improvements and sourcing opportunities that will improve the competitive position of our industrial pump product lines. a new product for the international standards organization (iso) market is being developed for release in 2012 and is positioned to be a globally-accepted product supporting the chemical industry. investment in a modern multistage ring section design progressed through the year with advanced construction and prototype testing. the new design is expected to streamline our product portfolio. 10 table of contents we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. successful testing of permanent magnet motor technology in our submersible motor products demonstrated improved product efficiency. in addition, canned motor technology utilizing a permanent magnet motor was demonstrated in our test facility. cost reduction projects incorporating product rationalization, value engineering, lean manufacturing and overhead reduction continue to be key drivers for ipd. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. ipd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading engineering, procurement and construction firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, water management, chemical, power generation and general industries. ipd competition the industrial pump industry is highly fragmented, with many competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include itt industries, ksb inc. and sulzer pumps. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the chemical industry, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment and our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions. ipd backlog ipd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2011 was $567.8 million (including $ 56.7 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $568.0 million (including $38.5 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2010 . we expect to ship 89% of december 31, 2011 backlog during 2012 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. in addition, fcd offers energy management products such as steam traps, boiler controls and condensate and energy recovery systems. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized and engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical (including pharmaceutical), power generation (nuclear, fossil and renewable), oil and gas, water management and general industries, including aerospace, pulp and paper and mining. fcd has 55 sites worldwide, including 25 principal manufacturing facilities ( five of which are located in the u.s. and 14 of which are located in europe) and 30 qrcs, including three consolidated joint ventures. a small portion of our valves are also produced through an unconsolidated foreign joint venture in india. fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represents one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. 11 table of contents our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can even utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. the following is a summary list of our generally available valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems digital positioners control valves pneumatic positioners ball valves intelligent positioners gate valves electric/electronic actuators globe valves pneumatic actuators check valves hydraulic actuators butterfly valves diaphragm actuators lined plug valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lined ball valves limit switches lubricated plug valves steam traps non-lubricated plug valves condensate and energy recovery systems integrated valve controllers boiler controls diagnostic software digital communications electro pneumatic positioners valve and automation repair services fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling naval argus noble alloy atomac norbro automax nordstrom durco pmv edward serck audco flowserve schmidt armaturen gestra valbart kammer valtek limitorque vogt mccanna/marpac worcester controls fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for 12 table of contents valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion and fundamental research in material sciences in order to increase the temperature, pressure and corrosion/erosion-resistance limits of existing products, as well as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of epd and ipd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, oil and gas, power generation, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from engineering, procurement and construction firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include tyco international ltd., cameron international corp., emerson electric co., general electric co. and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 25% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that we are the fourth largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2011 was $759.9 million, compared with $658.5 million as of december 31, 2010 . we expect to ship 88% of december 31, 2011 backlog during 2012 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. item 1a. risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance 13 table of contents expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their markets. the health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets can have an impact on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during favorable market conditions. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market disruptions and a sluggish global economic recovery could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to deliver our sizeable backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2011 , backlog was $2.7 billion. in 2012, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions during 2011, and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. 14 table of contents additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe, and political conditions in the middle east, north africa and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in the middle east and north africa and our customers' potential exposures to sovereign and non-sovereign debt in europe could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 table of contents our international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we are also subject to risks associated with certain of our foreign subsidiaries autonomously making sales and providing related services, under their own local authority, to customers in countries that have been designated by the u.s. state department as state sponsors of terrorism, including iran, syria and sudan. due to the growing political uncertainties associated with these countries, in 2006, our foreign subsidiaries began a voluntary withdrawal, on a phased basis, from conducting new business in these countries. the aggregate amount of all business done by our foreign subsidiaries for customers in iran, syria and sudan accounted for less than 0.3% of our consolidated revenue in 2011. effective january 1, 2012, our foreign subsidiaries substantially completed the winding down of business in these countries. our foreign subsidiaries' remaining activities in iran, sudan and syria are limited to ongoing wrap-up activities such as attempts to collect accounts receivable, resolution of bank guarantee and bond issues, government mandated inspections and payment of any outstanding agent commissions, which we plan to conclude as soon as possible. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations (e.g., the uk bribery act) in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper business advantage. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws worldwide. we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree. if we are found to be liable for fcpa or other similar anti-bribery law or regulatory violations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a multi-national company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing military operations in the middle east at large, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 table of contents environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at seven superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately 16,000 employees, of which approximately 5,000 were located in the u.s. approximately 7% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, sweden and the united kingdom ("u.k."). no unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 table of contents significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., india, japan, mexico, the netherlands and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets, for example the significant concentration of u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans, can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. the impact of the performance of global financial markets in recent years has reduced the value of investments held in trust to support pension plans. additionally, u.s. regulations are continually increasing the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans. the combined impact of these changes has required significant contributions to our pension plans in recent years, which is likely to continue, albeit to a lesser extent, in 2012. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $239 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; change fiscal year; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. our bank credit facilities also contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders certificates of compliance with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to 18 table of contents comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is 19 table of contents provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2012 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2012, our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and are expected to be between $120 million and $130 million, before consideration of any potential acquisition activity. we have $25.0 million in scheduled repayments in 2012 under our credit facilities, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our credit facilities in 2012 . see the "liquidity and capital resources" section of this md&amp;a for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be between $20 million and $25 million, excluding direct benefits paid, in 2012 in order to maintain fully-funded status, as defined by the u.s. pension protection act. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $10 million in 2012 . contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2011 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) long-term debt $ 25.0 $ 100.0 $ 350.0 $ $ 475.0 fixed interest payments(1) 0.8 0.5 1.3 variable interest payments(2) 12.2 21.2 7.8 41.2 other debt and capital lease obligations 28.6 1.6 30.2 operating leases 48.7 71.4 38.6 31.0 189.7 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 601.7 8.5 610.2 non-inventory 32.1 1.9 0.2 34.2 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 50.8 104.1 108.5 295.9 559.3 total $ 799.9 $ 309.2 $ 505.1 $ 326.9 $ 1,941.1 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent net incremental payments under interest rate swap agreements. (2) variable interest payments under our credit facilities were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2011 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2011 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $93.8 million. we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. 43 table of contents the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2011 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 419.6 $ 152.3 $ 5.7 $ 3.7 $ 581.3 surety bonds 78.7 11.9 90.6 total $ 498.3 $ 164.2 $ 5.7 $ 3.7 $ 671.9 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations required by accounting standards codification ("asc") 715, "compensation retirement benefits." in accounting for retirement plans, management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, turnover, health care cost trend rates and mortality rates. depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time and part-time employees. approximately 71% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 59% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2011 . the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of u.s. equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") equity and fixed income securities. in addition, certain of our defined benefit plans hold investments in european equity and fixed income securities as discussed in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. assets under our defined benefit pension plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities. at december 31, 2011 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $495.1 million from $479.7 million at december 31, 2010 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2011 2010 u.s. large cap 28 % 35 % u.s. small cap 4 % 5 % international large cap 14 % 10 % emerging markets(1) 4 % 0 % equity securities 50 % 50 % long-term government/credit 21 % 29 % intermediate bond 29 % 21 % fixed income 50 % 50 % multi-strategy hedge fund 0 % 0 % other 0 % 0 % other(2) 0 % 0 % _______________________________________ (1) less than 1% of holdings are in emerging markets category in 2010. (2) less than 1% of holdings are in other category in 2011 and 2010. 44 table of contents non-u.s. plans asset category 2011 2010 north american companies 5 % 5 % u.k. companies 20 % 26 % european companies 6 % 7 % asian pacific companies 5 % 6 % global equity 1 % 3 % emerging markets(1) 0 % 0 % equity securities 37 % 47 % u.k. government gilt index 21 % 18 % u.k. corporate bond index 17 % 15 % global fixed income bond 23 % 18 % fixed income 61 % 51 % other 2 % 2 % _______________________________________ (1) less than 1% of holdings are in the emerging markets category in 2010. the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $658.8 million and $625.7 million as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 , respectively. the estimated prior service benefit for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2012 is $1.2 million. the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2012 is $16.1 million. we amortize estimated prior service benefits and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $35.0 million and $39.1 million as of december 31, 2011 and 2010 , respectively. the estimated prior service benefit for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2012 is less than $0.1 million. the estimated actuarial net gain for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2012 is $2.0 million. we amortize estimated prior service benefits and estimated net gain over the remaining expected service period of approximately three years. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. see discussion of our assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. 45 table of contents in 2011 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $37.8 million compared with $36.1 million in 2010 and $35.7 million in 2009 . the gain for the postretirement medical plans was $1.2 million in 2011 compared with $2.4 million in 2010 and $2.3 million in 2009 . the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2011 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 4.50 % 5.09 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.56 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2011 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.25 % 6.13 % discount rate 5.00 5.13 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.46 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.2 ) $ 1.2 effect on benefit obligation (13.5 ) 14.5 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.7 ) 2.2 effect on benefit obligation (18.2 ) 20.1 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.2 ) 0.2 effect on benefit obligation (1.1 ) 1.2 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.7 ) $ 1.7 effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (0.7 ) 0.7 effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense n/a n/a effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2011 , as compared to december 31, 2010 , we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 5.00% to 4.50% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had a lower yield due to current market conditions. we decreased our average discount rate for non-u.s. plans from 5.13% to 5.09% based primarily on lower applicable corporate aa-graded bond yields for the u.k., partially offset by higher corporate aa-graded bond yields for the euro zone. the average assumed rate of compensation remained constant at 4.25% for the u.s. plan and increased from 3.46% to 3.56% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2011 pension expense, we decreased the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets from 46 table of contents 7.00% to 6.25% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 6.21% to 6.13% , primarily as a result of the decrease in the u.k. rate of return on assets. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $3 million higher in 2012 than the $37.8 million in 2011 , reflecting, among other things, the increased amortization of the actuarial net loss. we expect the 2012 net pension benefit for the postretirement medical plans to be $0.6 million lower than the $1.2 million in 2011 , primarily reflecting decreased amortization of the unrecognized prior service benefit. we have used discount rates of 4.50% , 5.09% and 4.25% at december 31, 2011 , in calculating our estimated 2012 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and other postretirement plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 8.5% for 2011 , 9.0% for 2010 and 9.0% for 2009 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2032 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $27.0 million, $50.2 million and $101.2 million to our defined benefit plans in 2011 , 2010 and 2009 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2012 will be between $20 million and $25 million, excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $10 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2012 . for further discussions on pension and postretirement benefits, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent losses; retirement and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed quarterly by management, and management presents its views to the audit committee of our board of directors. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is typically based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectability. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. our contracts typically include cancellation provisions that require customers to reimburse us for costs incurred up to the date of cancellation, as well as any contractual cancellation penalties. we enter into certain contracts with multiple deliverables that may include any combination of designing, developing, manufacturing, modifying, installing and commissioning of flow management equipment and providing services related to the performance of such products. delivery of these products and services typically occurs within a one to two-year period , although many arrangements, such as "book and ship" type orders, have a shorter timeframe for delivery . we aggregate or separate deliverables into units of accounting based on whether the deliverable(s) have standalone value to the customer and when no 47 table of contents general right of return exists. contract value is allocated ratably to the units of accounting in the arrangement based on their relative selling prices determined as if the deliverables were sold separately. revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 9% of our consolidated sales for each year presented. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years . fixed fee service contracts represent aproximately 1% of consolidated sales for each year presented. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis, accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined. in circumstances where the total projected revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur, and are included in retirement obligations and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. estimated receivables are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance 48 table of contents sheets. in one asbestos insurance related matter, we have a claim in litigation against relevant insurers substantially in excess of the recorded receivable. if our claim is resolved more favorably than reflected in this receivable, we would benefit from a one-time gain in the amount of such excess. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation rates. we also compare our significant assumptions with our peers. the methodology to set our assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the united kingdom and the euro zone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. inflation assumptions are based upon both actual inflation rates and nationally expected trends. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. retirement rates are based upon actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates are based on published actuarial tables relevant to the countries in which we have plans. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. health care cost trend rates are developed based upon historical retiree cost trend data, long-term health care outlook and industry benchmarks. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. in connection with our segment reorganization in 2010, we reallocated goodwill to our redefined reporting units and evaluated goodwill for impairment. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level: epd, ipd and fcd, and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in nine reporting units. other factors that were considered in 49 table of contents determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. impairment losses for goodwill are recognized whenever the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2011 , 2010 or 2009 . we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. although our market capitalization declined compared with 2010, it did not decline to a level that indicated a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2011. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of the trademarks by determining the present value of the royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2011 , 2010 or 2009 . the net realizable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed periodically, when indicators of potential impairments are present, based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing a methodology similar to that for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2011 , after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had $145.0 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our credit facilities with a weighted average interest rate of 2.58% . a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $1.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 . at december 31, 2011 and 2010 , we had $330.0 million and $350.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties with varying maturities through june 2014. foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and, therefore, do not hedge these investments. we use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in 50 table of contents foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net (losses) gains associated with foreign currency translation of $(56.8) million, $(10.6) million and $63.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2011 , 2010 and 2009 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive (expense) income. we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and changes in the fair values of these instruments are included in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. as of december 31, 2011 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $481.2 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in forward exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $358.5 million at december 31, 2010 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of certain forward exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized net foreign currency gains (losses) of $3.7 million, $(26.5) million and $(7.8) million for the years ended december 31, 2011 , 2010 and 2009 , respectively, which are included in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. see discussion of the impact in 2010 of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2011 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2011 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $25 million, due primarily to the euro. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. hedging related transactions, which are related to interest rate swaps and recorded to other comprehensive (expense) income, net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: year ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 (amounts in thousands) loss reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into income for settlements, net of tax $ (1,492 ) $ (4,215 ) $ (5,980 ) loss recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax (1,799 ) (1,392 ) (2,473 ) cash flow hedging activity, net of tax $ (307 ) $ 2,823 $ 3,507 we expect to recognize losses of $0.5 million, $0.3 million and less than $0.1 million , net of deferred taxes, into earnings in 2012 , 2013 and 2014 , respectively, related to interest rate swap agreements based on their fair values at december 31, 2011 . 51 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2012 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. we conduct our operations through three business segments based on type of product and how we manage the business: engineered product division ("epd") for long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems and replacement parts and related services; industrial product division ("ipd") for pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems and related products and services; and 1 flow control division ("fcd") for engineered and industrial valves, control valves, actuators and controls and related services. our business segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. epd and ipd have a high number of common customers and complementary product offerings and technologies that are often combined in applications that provide us a net competitive advantage. epd and ipd share certain resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("r&amp;d"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. on january 11, 2012, a new unified operational leadership structure was announced resulting in the creation of a chief operating officer ("coo") position. we believe this leadership structure positions the company to better leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase shareholders' value. our segment leadership reports to our coo, and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as r&amp;d, marketing and supply chain. strategies our overarching objective is to grow our position as a product and integrated solutions provider in the flow control industry. this objective includes continuing to sell products by building on existing sales relationships and leveraging the power of our portfolio of products and services. it also includes delivering specific end-user solutions that help customers attain their business goals by ensuring maximum reliability at a decreased cost of ownership. this objective is pursued by cultivating a corporate culture based on workplace safety for our employees, ethical and transparent business practices and a dedicated focus on serving our customers. these three pillars support a collaborative, 'one flowserve' approach which leverages a diverse and inclusive work environment worldwide. we seek to drive increasing enterprise value by using the following strategies: disciplined profitable growth, customer intimacy, innovation and portfolio management, strategic localization, operational excellence, employee focus and sustainable business model. the key elements of these strategies are outlined below. disciplined profitable growth disciplined profitable growth is focused on growing revenues profitably from our existing portfolio of products and services, as well as through the development or acquisition of new customer-driven products and services. its overarching goals are to focus on opportunities that can maximize the organic growth from existing customers and to evaluate potential new customer-partnering initiatives that maximize the capture of products' total life cycle. we believe we are the largest major pump, valve and seal company that can offer customers a differentiated option of flow management products and services across a broad portfolio, as well as offer additional options that include any combination of products and solution support packages. we also seek to continue to review our substantial installed pump, valve and seal base as a means to expand the aftermarket parts and services business, as customers are increasingly using third-party aftermarket parts and service providers to reduce their fixed costs and improve profitability. to date, the aftermarket business has provided us with a steady source of revenues and cash flows at higher margins than are typically realized with original equipment sales. aftermarket sales represented approximately 41% of total sales in both 2012 and 2011. we are building on our established presence through an extensive global qrc network to provide the immediate parts, service and technical support required to effectively manage and expand the aftermarket business created from our installed base. customer intimacy customer intimacy defines our approach to being prepared to serve the needs of our current and future customers better than our competition. through our ongoing relationships with our customers, we seek to gain a rich understanding of their business objectives and how our portfolio of offerings can best help them succeed. we collaborate with our customers on the front-end engineering and design work to drive flow management solutions that effectively generate the desired business outcomes. as we progress through original equipment projects, we work closely with our customers to understand and prepare for the long-term support needs for their operations with the intent of maximizing total life cycle value for our customers' investments. we seek to capture additional aftermarket business by creating mutually beneficial opportunities for us and our customers through sourcing and maintenance alliance programs where we provide all or an agreed-upon portion of customers' parts and servicing needs. these alliances enable us to develop long-term relationships with our customers and serve as an effective platform for introducing new products and services and generating additional sales. 2 innovation and portfolio management the ongoing management of our portfolio of products and services is critical to our success. as part of managing our portfolio, we continue to rationalize our portfolio of products and services to ensure alignment with changing market requirements. we also continue to invest in r&amp;d to expand the scope of our product offerings and our deployment of advanced technologies. the infusion of advanced technologies into new products and services continues to play a critical role in the ongoing evolution of our product portfolio. our objective is to improve the percentage of revenue derived from new products as a function of overall sales, utilizing technological innovation to improve overall product life cycle and reduce total cost of ownership for our customers. we employ a robust portfolio management and project execution process to seek out new product and technology opportunities, evaluate their potential return on investment and allocate resources to their development on a prioritized basis. each project is reviewed on a routine basis for such performance measures as time to market, net present value, budget adherence, technical and commercial risk and compliance with customer requirements. technical skill sets and knowledge are deployed across business segment boundaries to ensure that we bring the best capabilities to bear for each project. collectively, our r&amp;d portfolio is a key to our ability to differentiate our product and service offerings from other competitors in our target markets. we are focused on exploring and commercializing new technologies. in many of our research areas, we are teaming with universities and experts in the appropriate scientific fields to accelerate the required learning and to shorten the development time in leveraging the value of applied technologies in our products and services. our intent is to be a market leader in the application of advanced technology to improve product performance and return on investment for our customers. predictive diagnostics and asset management continue to be the biggest areas of effort for us across our business segments. building on the strength of our valvesight and technology advantage solutions, we have continued to deploy our diagnostics capabilities into more devices and expand on the number of host control systems and third party solutions with which we can achieve interoperability. these capabilities continue to provide a key source of competitive advantage in the marketplace and are saving our customers time and money in keeping their operations running. we continually evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investment opportunities to broaden our product portfolio, service capabilities, geographic presence and operational capabilities to meet the growing needs of our customers. we evaluate all investment opportunities through a decision filtering process to ensure a good strategic, financial and cultural fit. strategic localization strategic localization describes our global growth strategy. while we are a global company, we recognize that opportunities still remain. therefore, we strive to advance our presence in geographies that we believe are critical to our future success as a company by focusing on the following areas: expanding our global presence to capture business in developing geographic market areas; utilizing low-cost sourcing opportunities to remain competitive in the global economy; and attracting and retaining the global intellectual capital required to support our growth plans in new geographical areas. we believe there are attractive opportunities in international markets, particularly in africa, china, india, latin america, the middle east and russia, and we intend to continue to utilize our global presence and strategically invest to further penetrate these markets. in the aftermarket services business, we seek to strategically add qrc sites in order to provide rapid response, fast delivery and field repair on a global scale for our customers. in 2012 , we added four qrcs, expanding our ability to effectively deliver aftermarket support globally. we believe that our future success will be supported by investments made to establish indigenous operations to effectively serve the local market while taking advantage of low-cost manufacturing, competent engineering and strategic sourcing where practical. we believe that this positions us well to support our global customers from project conception through commissioning and throughout the life of their operations. for example, we are in the process of constructing new pump manufacturing sites in brazil and china that are anticipated to be operational in 2013 and 2014, respectively. additionally, the expansion of our existing pump manufacturing site in india is scheduled for completion in 2013. we continue to develop and increase our manufacturing, engineering and sourcing functions in lower-cost regions and emerging markets such as india, china, mexico, latin america, the middle east and eastern europe as we drive higher value-add from our supply base of materials and components and satisfy local content requirements. in 2012 , these lower-cost regions supplied our business segments with direct materials ranging from 18% to 45% of business segment spending. operational excellence the operational excellence strategy encapsulates ongoing programs that work to drive increased customer fulfillment and yield internal productivity. this initiative includes: 3 driving improved customer fulfillment through metrics such as on-time delivery, cost reduction, quality, cycle time reduction and warranty cost reduction as a percentage of sales; continuing to develop a culture of continuous improvement that delivers maximum productivity and cost efficiencies; and implementing global functional competencies to drive standardized processes. we seek to increase our operational efficiency through our continuous improvement process ("cip") initiative, which utilizes tools such as value analysis, value engineering, six sigma methodology, lean manufacturing and capacity management to improve quality and processes, reduce product cycle times and lower costs. recognizing that employees are our most valuable resource in achieving operational excellence goals, we have instituted cip training tailored to maximize the impact on our business. to date, approximately 1,700 active employees are cip-trained or certified as "green belts," "black belts" or "master black belts," and are deployed on cip projects throughout our operations, as well as in the front office of the business. as a result of the cip initiative, we have developed and implemented processes to reduce our engineering and manufacturing process cycle time, improve on-time delivery and service response time, optimize inventory levels and reduce costs. we have also experienced success in sharing and applying best practices achieved in one business segment and deploying those ideas to other segments of the business. we continue to rationalize existing enterprise resource planning ("erp") systems onto six strategic erp systems. going forward, these six strategic erp systems will be maintained as core systems with standard tool sets, and will be enhanced as needed to meet the growing needs of the business in areas such as e-commerce, back office optimization and export compliance. further investment in non-strategic erp systems will be limited to compliance matters and conversion to strategic erp systems. we also seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on management of accounts receivable and inventory. see further discussion in the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" of this annual report. employee focus we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: institutionalizing our succession planning along with our leadership competencies and performance management capabilities, with a focus on key positions and critical talent pools; utilizing these capabilities to drive employee engagement through our training initiatives and leadership development programs and facilitate our cross-business segment and functional development assignments; developing talent acquisition programs such as our engineering recruitment program to address critical talent needs to support our emerging markets and global growth; capturing the intellectual capital in the current workforce, disseminating it throughout our company and sharing it with customers as a competitive advantage; creating a total compensation program that provides our associates with equitable opportunities that are competitive and linked to business and individual performance while promoting employee behavior consistent with our code of business conduct and risk tolerance; and building a diverse and globally inclusive organization with a strong ethical and compliance culture based on transparency and trust. we continue to focus on training through the distribution of electronic learning packages in multiple languages for our code of business conduct, workplace harassment, facility safety, anti-bribery, export compliance and other regulatory and compliance programs. we also drive our training and leadership development programs through the deployment of general management development, manager competencies and a series of multi-lingual programs that focus on enhancing people management skills. sustainable business model the sustainable business model initiative is focused on areas that have the potential of adversely affecting our reputation, limiting our financial flexibility or creating unnecessary risk for any of our stakeholders. we proactively administer an enterprise risk management program with regular reviews of high-level matters with our board of directors. we work with our capital sourcing partners to ensure that the terms of our credit facilities and long-term debt are appropriately aligned with our business strategy. we also train our associates on and monitor matters of a legal or ethical nature to support understanding and compliance on a global basis. 4 competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand, and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the domestic and global economic environments in 2012 and current forecasts for 2013 , pricing was and may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in each of our three business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies who produce low-cost replications of spare parts. in the oil and gas industry, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, and our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. in other industries, the competitors for aftermarket services tend to be local independent repair shops and low-cost replicators. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital expenditure cycle. new product development we spent $38.9 million , $35.0 million and $29.5 million during 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively, on company-sponsored r&amp;d initiatives. our r&amp;d group consists of engineers involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. additionally, we sponsor consortium programs for research with various universities and jointly conduct limited development work with certain vendors, licensees and customers. we believe our r&amp;d expenditures are adequate to sustain our ongoing and necessary future product development. in addition, we work closely with our customers on customer-sponsored research activities to help execute their r&amp;d initiatives in connection with our products and services. new product development in each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management, and general industries. we do not believe that we have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2012 revenues. 5 customer information relating to each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or result of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. we are a vertically-integrated manufacturer of certain pump and valve products. certain corrosion-resistant castings for our pumps and valves are manufactured at our foundries. other metal castings are either manufactured at our foundries or purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. employees and labor relations we have approximately 17,000 employees globally. in the united states ("u.s."), a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our pump service center located in cleveland, ohio, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our foundry located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, sweden and the united kingdom ("u.k."). we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2012 revenues. environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically 6 make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at five superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these five sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $304.5 million in 2012 , $365.8 million in 2011 and $300.3 million in 2010 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . engineered product division our largest business segment is epd, through which we design, manufacture, distribute and service engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and related equipment. the business primarily consists of long lead time, highly-engineered, custom-configured products, which require extensive test requirements and superior project management skills. epd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and our regional qrcs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured at 29 plants worldwide, nine of which are located in europe, 11 in north america, four in asia pacific and five in latin america. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in china, india, japan, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support low-cost sourcing initiatives and capacity demands for other markets. 7 epd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our epd products and globally recognized brands: epd product types between bearings pumps overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems multiphase gas barrier seals reciprocating dry-running seals screw specialty products nuclear pumps power recovery dweer nuclear seals power recovery hydroturbine cryogenic pumps energy recovery devices cryogenic liquid expander cvp concrete volute pumps hydraulic decoking systems wireless transmitters api slurry pumps epd brand names bw seals lawrence byron jackson lifecycle advantage calder energy recovery devices niigata worthington cameron qrc durametallic pacific fedd wireless pacific weitz five star seal pac-seal flowserve readyseal flowstar united centrifugal gaspac western land roller idp wilson-snyder interseal worthington jeumont-schneider worthington-simpson epd services we provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 128 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 41 countries. our epd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning, repair, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of epd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. epd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow, power and pressure) and under more extreme conditions beyond the level of traditional technology. we continue to develop innovations that improve product performance and our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically targeting pipeline, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. the emergence of extreme pressure applications prompted the development of an advanced stage design 8 and construction of high pressure test capability necessary to validate the technology prior to introduction into the market. successful completion of the multiphase testing, as part of the subsea product development, validated our design predictions and established the baseline for future advances in subsea and land-based designs of this product. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we have been developing new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the modern nuclear power generation plant. in addition to nuclear pump product development, we have focused development efforts on an advanced seal design required to accommodate upset conditions recently identified by the nuclear industry. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements in coke cutting technology, nozzle design and auxiliary equipment improvements, as well as creation of an automated cutting system to improve operator safety. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. application of advanced computational fluid dynamics methods utilizing unsteady flow analysis led to the development of an advanced inlet chamber and impeller vane design for high energy injection water pumps. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. in 2012 , epd continued to advance our technology advantage platform through the integrated solutions organization ("iso"). this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our asset management and service capabilities for our end user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. epd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. epd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with hundreds of competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx corp.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; and weir group plc. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request. epd backlog epd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2012 was $1,400.3 million (including $21.4 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $1,441.6 million (including $19.9 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2011 . we expect to ship 81% of december 31, 2012 backlog during 2013 . industrial product division through ipd we design, manufacture, distribute and service pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems, including submersible motors, for industrial markets. our globalized operating platform, low-cost sourcing and continuous improvement initiatives are essential aspects of this business. ipd's standardized, general purpose pump products are primarily utilized by the 9 oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 12 manufacturing facilities, three of which are located in the u.s. and six in europe. ipd operates 20 qrcs worldwide, including 11 sites in europe, three in the u.s., five in asia pacific and one in latin america. ipd products we manufacture approximately 40 different active types of pumps available in a wide range of metal alloys and non-metallics with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. the following is a summary list of our ipd products and globally recognized brands: ipd pump product types overhung between bearings chemical process ansi and iso single case axially split industrial process single case radially split slurry and solids handling specialty products vertical molten salt vtp pump wet pit submersible pump deep well submersible motor thruster slurry and solids handling geothermal deepwell sump barge pump positive displacement gear ipd brand names aldrich sier bath durco tkl idp western land roller pacific worthington pleuger worthington-simpson scienco ipd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force and our regional service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. we provide an array of aftermarket services including product installation and commissioning services, spare parts, repairs, re-rate and upgrade solutions, advanced diagnostics and maintenance solutions through our global network of qrcs. ipd new product development our ipd development projects target product feature enhancements, design improvements and sourcing opportunities that we believe will improve the competitive position of our industrial pump product lines. a new product for the international standards organization market was released in 2012 and is positioned to be a globally-accepted product supporting the chemical industry. investment in a modern multistage ring section design progressed through the year with advanced construction and prototype testing. the new design is expected to streamline our product portfolio. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. successful testing of permanent magnet motor technology in our submersible motor products demonstrated improved product efficiency. in addition, canned motor technology utilizing a permanent magnet motor was demonstrated in our test facility. cost reduction projects incorporating product rationalization, value engineering, lean manufacturing and overhead reduction continue to be key drivers for ipd. 10 none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. ipd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, water management, chemical, power generation and general industries. ipd competition the industrial pump industry is highly fragmented, with many competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include itt industries, ksb inc. and sulzer pumps. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the chemical industry, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment and our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions. ipd backlog ipd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2012 was $593.0 million (including $ 40.7 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $567.8 million (including $56.7 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2011 . we expect to ship 74% of december 31, 2012 backlog during 2013 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. in addition, fcd offers energy management products such as steam traps, boiler controls and condensate and energy recovery systems. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized and engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical (including pharmaceutical), power generation (nuclear, fossil and renewable), oil and gas, water management and general industries (including aerospace, pulp and paper and mining). fcd has 58 sites worldwide, including 25 principal manufacturing facilities ( five of which are located in the u.s. and 13 of which are located in europe) and 33 qrcs, including three consolidated joint ventures. a small portion of our valves are also produced through an unconsolidated joint venture in india. fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represents one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can even utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the 11 largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. the following is a summary list of our generally available valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems digital positioners control valves pneumatic positioners ball valves intelligent positioners gate valves electric/electronic actuators globe valves pneumatic actuators check valves hydraulic actuators butterfly valves diaphragm actuators lined plug valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lined ball valves limit switches lubricated plug valves steam traps non-lubricated plug valves condensate and energy recovery systems integrated valve controllers boiler controls diagnostic software digital communications electro pneumatic positioners valve and automation repair services fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling naval argus noble alloy atomac norbro automax nordstrom durco pmv edward serck audco flowserve schmidt armaturen gestra valbart kammer valtek limitorque vogt mccanna/marpac worcester controls fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion and fundamental research in material sciences in order to increase the temperature, pressure 12 and corrosion/erosion-resistance limits of existing products, as well as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of epd and ipd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, oil and gas, power generation, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from epc firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include pentair ltd., cameron international corp., emerson electric co., general electric co. and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 25% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that we are the fourth largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2012 was $723.9 million, compared with $759.9 million as of december 31, 2011 . we expect to ship 88% of december 31, 2012 backlog during 2013 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. item 1a. risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. while we believe all known material risks are disclosed, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment 13 and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their industries or markets. despite these favorable conditions, the general health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets may impact investments in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact capital investment decisions and their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market disruptions and a sluggish global economic recovery could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to deliver our sizeable backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2012 , backlog was $2.6 billion. in 2013 , our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end-user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow-growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions during 2012, and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their supply chain. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue 14 to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe, and political conditions in the middle east, north africa, latin america and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in the middle east and north africa and our customers' potential exposures to sovereign and non-sovereign debt in europe could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 our international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. effective december 31, 2011, our foreign subsidiaries completed the withdrawal from autonomously conducting business, under their own local authority, with customers in countries designated by the u.s. state department as state sponsors of terrorism, including iran, syria and sudan. our foreign subsidiaries' remaining activities in these countries are limited to government-mandated inspections, which we plan to conclude as soon as possible. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, such as the uk bribery act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. because we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree, our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide. if we are found to be in violation of the fcpa or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, such as the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing military operations in the middle east at large, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at five superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2012 , we had approximately 17,000 employees, of which approximately 6,000 were located in the u.s. approximately 7% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, sweden and the u.k. no unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., india, japan, mexico, the netherlands and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. this impact may be particularly prevalent where we maintain significant concentrations of specified investments, such as the u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. regulations have increased the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans in prior years, which has at times required significant contributions to our pension plans. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $268 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. in addition, tax law changes could negatively impact our deferred tax assets. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. 18 we are also required to maintain certain debt ratings, comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement 19 or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" below. liquidity analysis our cash balance decreased by $33.1 million to $304.3 million as of december 31, 2012 as compared with december 31, 2011 . the cash usage included $771.9 million of share repurchases, $135.5 million in capital expenditures and $73.8 million in dividend payments partially offset by $418.1 million in net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt. approximately 6% of our term loan is due to mature in 2013 and approximately 10% in 2014 . our senior credit facility matures in august 2017. after the effects of $275.0 million of notional interest rate swaps, approximately 70% of our term debt was at fixed rates at december 31, 2012 . as of december 31, 2012 , we had a borrowing capacity of $697.8 million on our $850.0 million revolving credit facility (including outstanding letters of credit), and we had net available capacity under the european loc facility of 61.9 million ( $81.7 million ). our revolving credit facility and our european loc facility are committed and are held by a diversified group of financial institutions. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, as a result of increases in values of the plan's assets and our contributions to the plan, our u.s. pension plan was fully-funded as defined by applicable law. after consideration of our intent to maintain fully funded status, we contributed $7.9 million to our u.s. pension plan in 2012, excluding direct benefits paid. we continue to maintain an asset allocation consistent with our strategy to maximize total return, while reducing portfolio risks through asset class diversification. at december 31, 2012, $299.4 million of our total cash balance of $304.3 million was held by foreign subsidiaries, $248.7 million of which we consider permanently reinvested outside the u.s. based on the expected 2013 liquidity needs of our various geographies, we currently do not anticipate the need to repatriate any permanently reinvested cash to fund domestic operations that would generate adverse tax results. however, in the event this cash is needed to fund domestic operations, we estimate the $248.7 million could be repatriated without resulting in a material u.s. tax liability. outlook for 2013 our future results of operations and other forward-looking statements contained in this annual report, including this md&amp;a, involve a number of risks and uncertainties in particular, the statements regarding our goals and strategies, new product introductions, plans to cultivate new businesses, future economic conditions, revenue, pricing, gross profit margin and costs, capital spending, depreciation and amortization, research and development expenses, potential impairment of investments, tax rate and pending tax and legal proceedings. our future results of operations may also be affected by the amount, type and valuation of share-based awards granted, as well as the amount of awards forfeited due to employee turnover. in addition to the various important factors discussed above, a number of other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. see the risks described in "item 1a. risk factors" of this annual report. our bookings were $4,713.5 million during 2012 . because a booking represents a contract that can be, in certain circumstances, modified or canceled, and can include varying lengths between the time of booking and the time of revenue recognition, there is no guarantee that the increase in bookings will result in a comparable increase in revenues or otherwise be indicative of future results. we expect a continued competitive economic environment in 2013; however, we anticipate benefits from the continuation of our end user strategy, the strength of our high margin aftermarket business, continued disciplined cost management, our diverse customer base, our broad product portfolio and our unified operating platform. similar to prior years, we expect our results will be weighted towards the second half of the year. while we believe that our primary markets continue to provide opportunities, as evidenced by eight consecutive quarters of over $1 billion in bookings, we remain cautious in our outlook for 2013 given the continuing uncertainty of global economic conditions. for additional discussion on our markets and our opportunities, see the "business overview our markets" section of this md&amp;a. on december 31, 2012 , we had $498.1 million of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding and $395.0 million of variable-rate debt under our senior credit facility. all of our borrowings under our senior credit facility carry a floating rate of interest. as of december 31, 2012, we had $275.0 million of derivative contracts to convert a portion of floating interest rates to fixed interest rates to reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility. however, because a portion of our debt carries a floating rate of interest, our debt is subject to volatility in rates, which could impact interest expense. we expect our interest expense in 2013 will be higher than 2012 due to our increased level of debt. our results of operations may also be impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2013 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working 39 capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2013, our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and are expected to be between $120 million and $130 million , before consideration of any potential acquisition activity. we have $25.0 million in scheduled principal repayments in 2013 under our senior credit facility, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our senior credit facility in 2013 . see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million, excluding direct benefits paid, in 2013 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $10 million in 2013 . on february 8, 2013, the venezuelan government announced its intention to devalue its currency (bolivar) from 4.3 to 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. our operations in venezuela generally consist of a service center that performs service and repair activities. in addition, certain of our operations in other countries sell equipment and parts that are typically denominated in u.s. dollars directly to venezuelan customers. our venezuelan subsidiary's sales in 2012 and total assets at december 31, 2012 represented less than 1% of consolidated sales and total assets for the same period. our preliminary assessment of the impact of the devaluation is that we will incur an after-tax charge of approximately $3 million in the first quarter of 2013 as a result of re-measuring using the rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. we are currently assessing the ongoing impact of the currency devaluation on our venezuelan operations and imports into the market, including further actions of the venezuelan government and economic conditions in venezuela, such as inflation and capital spending. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2012 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) term loan facility and senior notes $ 25.0 $ 85.0 $ 285.0 $ 500.0 $ 895.0 fixed interest payments(1) 18.9 35.3 35.0 87.5 176.7 variable interest payments(2) 7.1 12.3 7.3 26.7 other debt and capital lease obligations 34.5 1.0 35.5 operating leases 52.8 73.2 39.0 47.1 212.1 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 553.9 13.3 1.7 0.8 569.7 non-inventory 39.5 3.1 0.1 42.7 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 53.2 109.5 115.8 315.6 594.1 total $ 784.9 $ 332.7 $ 483.9 $ 951.0 $ 2,552.5 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent net incremental payments under interest rate swap agreements related to the term loan facility and interest payments on the senior notes. (2) variable interest payments under our senior credit facility were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2012 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2012 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $59.1 million. we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. 40 the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2012 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 448.3 $ 150.8 $ 23.6 $ 53.0 $ 675.7 surety bonds 105.3 22.5 127.8 total $ 553.6 $ 173.3 $ 23.6 $ 53.0 $ 803.5 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 69% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 55% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2012 . the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of primarily u.s. equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") equity and fixed income securities. in addition, certain of our defined benefit plans hold investments in european equity and fixed income securities as discussed in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. assets under our defined benefit pension plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities. at december 31, 2012 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $553.4 million from $495.1 million at december 31, 2011 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2012 2011 u.s. large cap 28 % 28 % u.s. small cap 4 % 4 % international large cap 14 % 14 % emerging markets 4 % 4 % equity securities 50 % 50 % long-term government/credit 21 % 21 % intermediate bond 29 % 29 % fixed income 50 % 50 % other(1) 0 % 0 % _______________________________________ (1) less than 1% of holdings are in other category in 2011. 41 non-u.s. plans asset category 2012 2011 north american companies 5 % 5 % u.k. companies 19 % 20 % european companies 6 % 6 % asian pacific companies 5 % 5 % global equity 1 % 1 % equity securities 36 % 37 % u.k. government gilt index 21 % 21 % u.k. corporate bond index 19 % 17 % global fixed income bond 22 % 23 % fixed income 62 % 61 % other 2 % 2 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $763.9 million and $658.8 million as of december 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2013 is less than $0.1 million and $20.4 million, respectively. we amortize estimated prior service costs and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $35.0 million at both december 31, 2012 and 2011 . the estimated actuarial net gain for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2013 is $1.2 million. no estimated prior service benefit or cost is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into u.s. pension expense in 2013. we amortize any estimated prior service benefits and estimated net gain over the remaining expected service period of approximately three years. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2012 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $41.4 million compared with $37.8 million in 2011 and $36.1 million in 2010 . the gain for the postretirement medical plans was $0.1 million in 2012 compared with $1.2 million in 2011 and $2.4 million in 2010 . 42 the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2012 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 3.75 % 4.16 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.84 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2012 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.25 % 5.78 % discount rate 4.50 5.09 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.56 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.0 ) $ 1.1 effect on benefit obligation (14.4 ) 15.6 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.6 ) 1.7 effect on benefit obligation (24.5 ) 27.2 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.2 ) 0.2 effect on benefit obligation (1.1 ) 1.2 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.7 ) $ 1.7 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (0.7 ) 0.7 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2012 , as compared to december 31, 2011 , we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 4.50% to 3.75% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had a lower yield due to current market conditions. we decreased our average discount rate for non-u.s. plans from 5.09% to 4.16% based primarily on lower applicable corporate aa-graded bond yields for the euro zone and the u.k. the average assumed rate of compensation remained constant at 4.25% for the u.s. plan and increased from 3.56% to 3.84% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2012 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets remained consistent with 2011 at 6.25% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 6.13% to 5.78% , primarily as a result of the decrease in the u.k. rate of return on assets. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $10 million higher in 2013 than the $41.4 million in 2012 , reflecting, among other things, increased amortization of the actuarial net loss and increased service costs. we expect the 2013 net pension benefit for the postretirement medical plans to be $0.1 million higher than the $0.1 million benefit in 2012 . 43 we have used discount rates of 3.75% , 4.16% and 3.25% at december 31, 2012 , in calculating our estimated 2013 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and other postretirement plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 8.0% for 2012 , 8.5% for 2011 and 9.0% for 2010 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2032 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $28.1 million, $27.0 million and $50.2 million to our defined benefit plans in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2013 will be approximately $20 million, excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $10 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2013 . for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent losses; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed quarterly by management. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is typically based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectability. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. our contracts typically include cancellation provisions that require customers to reimburse us for costs incurred up to the date of cancellation, as well as any contractual cancellation penalties. we enter into certain contracts with multiple deliverables that may include any combination of designing, developing, manufacturing, modifying, installing and commissioning of flow management equipment and providing services related to the performance of such products. delivery of these products and services typically occurs within a one to two-year period , although many arrangements, such as "book and ship" type orders, have a shorter timeframe for delivery . we aggregate or separate deliverables into units of accounting based on whether the deliverable(s) have standalone value to the customer and when no general right of return exists. contract value is allocated ratably to the units of accounting in the arrangement based on their relative selling prices determined as if the deliverables were sold separately. revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 9% of our consolidated sales for each year presented. 44 revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years . fixed fee service contracts represent aproximately 1% of consolidated sales for each year presented. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis, accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined. in circumstances where the total projected revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of penalties or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. 45 pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the united kingdom and the euro zone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in eight reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. impairment losses for goodwill are recognized whenever the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2012 , 2011 or 2010 . the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values at december 31, 2012. 46 we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization increased as compared with 2011 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2012 . impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of the trademarks by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2012 , 2011 or 2010 . the net realizable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the net realizable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing a methodology similar to that for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2012 , after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had $120.0 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 1.81% . a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $1.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 . at december 31, 2012 and 2011 , we had $275.0 million and $330.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties with varying maturities through june 2015 . foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and, therefore, do not hedge these investments. we use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net gains (losses) associated with foreign currency translation of $18.2 million , $(56.8) million and $(10.6) million for the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive loss . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and changes in the fair values of these instruments are included in other (expense) 47 income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. as of december 31, 2012 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $608.9 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in forward exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $481.2 million at december 31, 2011 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of certain forward exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net (losses) gains of $(21.3) million , $3.7 million and $(26.5) million for the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively, which are included in other (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2012 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2012 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $29 million, due primarily to the euro. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. hedging related transactions, which are related to interest rate swaps and recorded to other comprehensive loss , net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: year ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 (amounts in thousands) loss reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income for settlements, net of tax $ (923 ) $ (1,492 ) $ (4,215 ) loss recognized in other comprehensive loss, net of tax (442 ) (1,799 ) (1,392 ) cash flow hedging activity, net of tax $ 481 $ (307 ) $ 2,823 we expect to recognize losses of $1.0 million , $0.5 million and $0.2 million , net of deferred taxes, into earnings in 2013 , 2014 and 2015 , respectively, related to interest rate swap agreements based on their fair values at december 31, 2012 . 48risk factors 13 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2013 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. we conduct our operations through three business segments based on type of product and how we manage the business: engineered product division ("epd") for long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems and replacement parts and related services; 1 industrial product division ("ipd") for pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems and related products and services; and flow control division ("fcd") for engineered and industrial valves, control valves, actuators and controls and related services. our business segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. epd and ipd have a high number of common customers and complementary product offerings and technologies that are often combined in applications that provide us a net competitive advantage. all segments share certain resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("r&amp;d"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. in 2012, a unified operational leadership structure was announced resulting in the creation of a chief operating officer ("coo") position. we believe this leadership structure positions the company to better leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase shareholders' value. our segment leadership reports to our coo, and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as r&amp;d, marketing and supply chain. strategies our overarching objective is to grow our position as a product and integrated solutions provider in the flow control industry. this objective includes continuing to sell products by building on existing sales relationships and leveraging the power of our portfolio of products and services. it also includes delivering specific end-user solutions that help customers attain their business goals by ensuring maximum reliability at a decreased cost of ownership. this objective is pursued by cultivating a corporate culture based on workplace safety for our employees, ethical and transparent business practices and a dedicated focus on serving our customers. these three pillars support a collaborative, 'one flowserve' approach that leverages a diverse and inclusive work environment worldwide. we seek to drive increasing enterprise value by using the following strategies: disciplined profitable growth, customer intimacy, innovation and portfolio management, strategic localization, operational excellence, employee focus and sustainable business model. the key elements of these strategies are outlined below. disciplined profitable growth disciplined profitable growth is focused on growing revenues profitably from our existing portfolio of products and services, as well as through the development or acquisition of new customer-driven products and services. its overarching goals are to focus on opportunities that can maximize the organic growth from existing customers and to evaluate potential new customer-partnering initiatives that maximize the capture of products' total life cycle. we believe we are the largest major pump, valve and seal company that can offer customers a differentiated option of flow management products and services across a broad portfolio, as well as offer additional options that include any combination of products and solution support packages. we also seek to continue to review our substantial installed pump, valve and seal base as a means to expand the aftermarket parts and services business, as customers are increasingly using third-party aftermarket parts and service providers to reduce their fixed costs and improve profitability. to date, the aftermarket business has provided us with a steady source of revenues and cash flows at higher margins than are typically realized with original equipment sales. aftermarket sales represented approximately 40% and 41% of total sales in 2013 and 2012 , respectively. we are building on our established presence through an extensive global qrc network to provide the immediate parts, service and technical support required to effectively manage and expand the aftermarket business created from our installed base. customer intimacy customer intimacy defines our approach to being prepared to serve the needs of our current and future customers better than our competition. through our ongoing relationships with our customers, we seek to gain a rich understanding of their business objectives and how our portfolio of offerings can best help them succeed. we collaborate with our customers on the front-end engineering and design work to drive flow management solutions that effectively generate the desired business outcomes. as we progress through original equipment projects, we work closely with our customers to understand and prepare for the long-term support needs for their operations with the intent of maximizing total life cycle value for our customers' investments. we seek to capture additional aftermarket business by creating mutually beneficial opportunities for us and our customers through sourcing and maintenance alliance programs where we provide all or an agreed-upon portion of customers' parts and servicing needs. these alliances enable us to develop long-term relationships with our customers and serve as an effective platform for introducing new products and services and generating additional sales. 2 innovation and portfolio management the ongoing management of our portfolio of products and services is critical to our success. as part of managing our portfolio, we continue to rationalize our portfolio of products and services to ensure alignment with changing market requirements. we also continue to invest in r&amp;d to expand the scope of our product offerings and our deployment of advanced technologies. the infusion of advanced technologies into new products and services continues to play a critical role in the ongoing evolution of our product portfolio. our objective is to improve the percentage of revenue derived from new products as a function of overall sales, utilizing technological innovation to improve overall product life cycle and reduce total cost of ownership for our customers. we employ a robust portfolio management and project execution process to seek out new product and technology opportunities, evaluate their potential return on investment and allocate resources to their development on a prioritized basis. each project is reviewed on a routine basis for such performance measures as time to market, net present value, budget adherence, technical and commercial risk and compliance with customer requirements. technical skill sets and knowledge are deployed across business segment boundaries to ensure that we bring the best capabilities to bear for each project. collectively, our r&amp;d portfolio is a key to our ability to differentiate our product and service offerings from other competitors in our target markets. we are focused on exploring and commercializing new technologies. in many of our research areas, we are teaming with universities and experts in the appropriate scientific fields to accelerate the required learning and to shorten the development time in leveraging the value of applied technologies in our products and services. our intent is to be a market leader in the application of advanced technology to improve product performance and return on investment for our customers. predictive diagnostics and asset management continue to be one of the key areas of effort for us across our business segments. building on the strength of our valvesight, technology advantage solutions and integration with host control systems, we have continued to deploy more diagnostics capabilities into our devices and expand on the equipment that can be monitored continuously. these capabilities continue to provide a key source of competitive advantage in the marketplace and are saving our customers time and money in keeping their operations running. we continually evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investment opportunities to broaden our product portfolio, service capabilities, geographic presence and operational capabilities to meet the growing needs of our customers. we evaluate all investment opportunities through a decision filtering process to ensure a good strategic, financial and cultural fit. strategic localization strategic localization describes our global growth strategy. while we are a global company, we recognize that opportunities still remain. therefore, we strive to advance our presence in geographies that we believe are critical to our future success as a company by focusing on the following areas: expanding our global presence to capture business in developing geographic market areas; utilizing low-cost sourcing opportunities to remain competitive in the global economy; and attracting and retaining the global intellectual capital required to support our growth plans in new geographical areas. we believe there are attractive opportunities in international markets, particularly in africa, china, india, latin america, the middle east and russia, and we intend to continue to utilize our global presence and strategically invest to further penetrate these markets. in the aftermarket services business, we seek to strategically add qrc sites in order to provide rapid response, fast delivery and field repair on a global scale for our customers. in 2013 , we added two qrcs, expanding our ability to effectively deliver aftermarket support globally. we believe that our future success will be supported by investments made to establish indigenous operations to effectively serve the local market while taking advantage of low-cost manufacturing, competent engineering and strategic sourcing where practical. we believe that this positions us well to support our global customers from project conception through commissioning and throughout the life of their operations. for example, we are in the process of constructing a new pump manufacturing site in china that is anticipated to be operational in 2014. we continue to develop and increase our manufacturing, engineering and sourcing functions in lower-cost regions and emerging markets such as india, china, mexico, latin america, the middle east and eastern europe as we drive higher value-add from our supply base of materials and components and satisfy local content requirements. in 2013 , these lower-cost regions supplied our business segments with direct materials ranging from 19% to 35% of business segment spending. 3 operational excellence the operational excellence strategy encapsulates ongoing programs that work to drive increased customer fulfillment and yield internal productivity. this initiative includes: driving improved customer fulfillment through metrics such as on-time delivery, cost reduction, quality, cycle time reduction and warranty cost reduction as a percentage of sales; continuing to develop a culture of continuous improvement that delivers maximum productivity and cost efficiencies; and implementing global functional competencies to drive standardized processes. we seek to increase our operational efficiency through our continuous improvement process ("cip") initiative, which utilizes tools such as value analysis, value engineering, six sigma methodology, lean manufacturing and capacity management to improve quality and processes, reduce product cycle times and lower costs. recognizing that employees are our most valuable resource in achieving operational excellence goals, we have instituted cip training tailored to maximize the impact on our business. to date, we have approximately 2,100 active employees that are cip-trained or certified as "green belts," "black belts" or "master black belts," and are deployed on cip projects throughout our operations, as well as in the front office of the business. as a result of the cip initiative, we have developed and implemented processes at various sites to reduce our engineering and manufacturing process cycle time, improve on-time delivery and service response time, optimize working capital levels and reduce costs. we have also experienced success in sharing and applying best practices achieved in one business segment and deploying those ideas to other segments of the business. we continue to rationalize existing enterprise resource planning ("erp") systems onto six strategic erp systems. going forward, these six strategic erp systems will be maintained as core systems with standard tool sets, and will be enhanced as needed to meet the growing needs of the business in areas such as e-commerce, back office optimization and export compliance. further investment in non-strategic erp systems will be limited to compliance matters and conversion to strategic erp systems. we also seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on management of accounts receivable and inventory. see further discussion in the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" ("item 7") of this annual report. employee focus we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: institutionalizing our succession planning along with our core competencies and performance management capabilities, with a focus on key positions and critical talent pools; utilizing these capabilities to drive employee engagement through our training initiatives and leadership development programs and facilitate our cross-business segment and functional development assignments; developing talent acquisition programs such as our engineering recruitment program to address current and future critical talent needs to support our emerging markets and global growth; capturing the intellectual capital in the current workforce, disseminating it throughout our company and sharing it with customers as a competitive advantage; creating a total compensation program that provides our associates with equitable opportunities that are competitive and linked to business and individual performance while promoting employee behavior consistent with our code of business conduct and risk tolerance; and building a diverse and globally inclusive organization with a strong ethical and compliance culture based on transparency and trust. we continue to focus on training through the distribution of electronic learning packages in multiple languages for our code of business conduct, workplace harassment, facility safety, anti-bribery, export compliance and other regulatory and compliance programs. we also drive our training and leadership development programs through the deployment of general management development, manager competencies and a series of multi-lingual programs that focus on enhancing people management skills. sustainable business model the sustainable business model initiative is focused on areas that have the potential of adversely affecting our reputation, limiting our financial flexibility or creating unnecessary risk for any of our stakeholders. we proactively administer an enterprise risk management program with regular reviews of high-level matters with our board of directors. we work with our capital sourcing partners to ensure that the terms of our credit facilities and long-term debt are appropriately aligned with our business 4 strategy. we also train our associates on and monitor matters of a legal or ethical nature to support understanding and compliance on a global basis. competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand, and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the domestic and global economic environments in 2013 and current forecasts for 2014 , pricing was and may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in each of our three business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies who produce low-cost replications of spare parts. in the oil and gas and chemical industries, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, and our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. in other industries, the competitors for aftermarket services tend to be local independent repair shops and low-cost replicators. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital expenditure cycle. new product development we spent $37.8 million , $38.9 million and $35.0 million during 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, on company-sponsored r&amp;d initiatives. our r&amp;d group consists of engineers involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. additionally, we sponsor consortium programs for research with various universities and jointly conduct limited development work with certain vendors, licensees and customers. we believe our r&amp;d expenditures are adequate to sustain our ongoing and necessary future product development. in addition, we work closely with our customers on customer-sponsored research activities to help execute their r&amp;d initiatives in connection with our products and services. new product development in each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. 5 customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. we do not believe that we have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2013 revenues. customer information relating to each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or result of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. we are a vertically-integrated manufacturer of certain pump and valve products. certain corrosion-resistant castings for our pumps and valves are manufactured at our foundries. other metal castings are either manufactured at our foundries or purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. employees and labor relations we have approximately 18,000 employees globally. in the united states ("u.s."), a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our pump service center located in cleveland, ohio, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our foundry located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, sweden and the united kingdom ("u.k."). we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2013 revenues. 6 environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at five superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these five sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $355.7 million in 2013 , $304.5 million in 2012 and $365.8 million in 2011 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . engineered product division our largest business segment is epd, through which we design, manufacture, distribute and service custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and related equipment. the business consists of long lead time, highly-engineered, custom-configured products, which require extensive test requirements and superior project management skills, as well as aftermarket services supporting global infrastructure industries. epd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and our regional qrcs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured at 29 plants worldwide, nine of which are located in europe, 11 in north america, four in asia pacific and five in latin america. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in china, india, japan, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support low-cost sourcing initiatives and capacity demands for other markets. 7 epd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our epd products and globally recognized brands: epd product types between bearings pumps overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems multiphase gas barrier seals reciprocating dry-running seals screw specialty products nuclear pumps power recovery dweer nuclear seals power recovery hydroturbine cryogenic pumps energy recovery devices cryogenic liquid expander cvp concrete volute pumps hydraulic decoking systems wireless transmitters api slurry pumps epd brand names bw seals lawrence byron jackson lifecycle advantage calder energy recovery devices niigata worthington cameron qrc durametallic pacific fedd wireless pacific weitz five star seal pac-seal flowserve readyseal flowstar united centrifugal gaspac western land roller idp wilson-snyder interseal worthington jeumont-schneider worthington-simpson epd services we provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 127 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 42 countries. our epd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning, repair, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of epd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. epd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow, power and pressure) and under more extreme conditions beyond the level of traditional technology. we continue to develop innovations that improve product performance and our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically targeting pipeline, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. the emergence of extreme pressure applications prompted the development of an advanced stage design 8 and construction of high pressure test capability necessary to validate the technology prior to introduction into the market. successful completion of the multiphase testing, as part of the subsea product development, validated our design predictions and established the baseline for future advances in subsea and land-based designs of this product. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we have been developing new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the modern nuclear power generation plant. in addition to nuclear pump product development, we have focused development efforts on an advanced seal design required to accommodate upset conditions recently identified by the nuclear industry. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements in coke cutting technology, nozzle design and auxiliary equipment improvements, as well as creation of an automated cutting system to improve operator safety. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. application of advanced computational fluid dynamics methods utilizing unsteady flow analysis led to the development of an advanced inlet chamber and impeller vane design for high energy injection water pumps. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. additionally, we are incentivizing our operations and tracking the r&amp;d projects more closely, which is leading to broader engagement in developing new products. in 2013 , epd continued to advance our technology advantage platform through the integrated solutions organization ("iso"). this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our asset management and service capabilities for our end-user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. finally, we have been exploring the "additive manufacturing" opportunities in our products and auxiliary systems. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. epd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. epd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with hundreds of competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx corp.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; and weir group plc. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request. epd backlog epd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2013 was $1,311.4 million (including $21.6 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $1,400.3 million (including $21.4 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2012 . we expect to ship 81% of december 31, 2013 backlog during 2014 . 9 industrial product division through ipd we design, manufacture, distribute and service pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems, including submersible motors, for industrial markets. our globalized operating platform, low-cost sourcing and continuous improvement initiatives are essential aspects of this business. ipd's standardized, general purpose pump products are primarily utilized by the oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 13 manufacturing facilities, four of which are located in the u.s. and six in europe. ipd operates 19 qrcs worldwide, including nine sites in europe, four in the u.s., five in asia pacific and one in latin america. ipd products we manufacture approximately 40 different active types of pumps available in a wide range of metal alloys and non-metallics with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. additionally, in the fourth quarter we acquired innovative mag-drive, llc ("innomag"), a leader in the advanced sealless magnetic drive centrifugal pump technologies, which strengthens our offering to the chemical process industries. the following is a summary list of our ipd products and globally recognized brands: ipd pump product types overhung between bearings chemical process ansi and iso single case axially split industrial process single case radially split slurry and solids handling specialty products vertical molten salt vtp pump wet pit submersible pump deep well submersible motor thruster slurry and solids handling geothermal deepwell sump barge pump positive displacement gear ipd brand names aldrich sier bath durco tkl idp western land roller innomag worthington pacific worthington-simpson pleuger scienco ipd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force and our regional service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. we provide an array of aftermarket services including product installation and commissioning services, spare parts, repairs, re-rate and upgrade solutions, advanced diagnostics and maintenance solutions through our global network of qrcs. ipd new product development our ipd development projects target product feature enhancements, design improvements and sourcing opportunities that we believe will improve the competitive position of our industrial pump product lines. we will invest in our chemical product platform to expand and enhance our products offered to the global chemical industry. our investment in a modern multistage ring 10 section design progressed through the year with advanced construction and prototype testing. the new design is expected to streamline our product portfolio. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. successful new product release of permanent magnet motor technology in our submersible motor products demonstrated improved product efficiency. we will further our energy efficiency initiatives in response to various global governmental directives. cost reduction projects incorporating product rationalization, value engineering, lean manufacturing and overhead reduction continue to be key drivers for ipd. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. ipd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. ipd competition the industrial pump industry is highly fragmented, with many competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include itt industries, ksb inc. and sulzer pumps. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the chemical industry, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment and our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions. ipd backlog ipd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2013 was $530.1 million (including $ 30.0 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $593.0 million (including $40.7 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2012 . we expect to ship 83% of december 31, 2013 backlog during 2014 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. in addition, fcd offers energy management products such as steam traps, boiler controls and condensate and energy recovery systems. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized and engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 27 principal manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s., 14 of which are located in europe and seven of which are located in asia pacific. fcd operates 33 qrcs worldwide. fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represents one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital 11 communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. the following is a summary list of our generally available valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems digital positioners control valves pneumatic positioners ball valves intelligent positioners gate valves electric/electronic actuators globe valves pneumatic actuators check valves hydraulic actuators butterfly valves diaphragm actuators lined plug valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lined ball valves limit switches lubricated plug valves steam traps non-lubricated plug valves condensate and energy recovery systems integrated valve controllers boiler controls diagnostic software digital communications electro pneumatic positioners valve and automation repair services fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling naval argus noble alloy atomac norbro automax nordstrom durco pmv edward serck audco flowserve schmidt armaturen gestra valbart kammer valtek limitorque vogt mccanna/marpac worcester controls fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. 12 fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion and fundamental research in material sciences in order to increase the temperature, pressure and corrosion/erosion-resistance limits of existing products, as well as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of epd and ipd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from epc firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include pentair ltd., cameron international corp., emerson electric co., general electric co. and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 25% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that we are the fourth largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2013 was $769.6 million, compared with $723.9 million as of december 31, 2012 . we expect to ship 87% of december 31, 2013 backlog during 2014 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. item 1a. risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. while we believe all known material risks are disclosed, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 13 our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industries, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their industries or markets. despite these favorable conditions, the general health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets may impact investments in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact capital investment decisions and their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market disruptions and a sluggish global economic recovery could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to deliver our sizeable backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2013 , backlog was $2.6 billion. in 2014 , our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end-user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow-growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their supply chain. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe, and political conditions in the middle east, north africa, latin america and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; increased aging and slower collection of receivables, particularly in latin america and other emerging markets; difficulty of enforcing agreements through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriat e income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in the middle east and north africa could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. 15 in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar and argentine peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, such as the uk bribery act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. because we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree, our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide. if we are found to be in violation of the fcpa or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, such as the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing instability in syria and egypt, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at five superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately 18,000 employees, of which approximately 5,800 were located in the u.s. approximately 7.5% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, sweden and the u.k. no individual unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., india, japan, mexico, the netherlands and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany, italy and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. this impact may be particularly prevalent where we maintain significant concentrations of specified investments, such as the u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. regulations have increased the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans in prior years, which has at times required significant contributions to our pension plans. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $239 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. in addition, tax law changes could negatively impact our deferred tax assets. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. 18 we are also required to comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is 19 provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" below. liquidity analysis our cash balance increased by $59.6 million to $363.8 million as of december 31, 2013 as compared with december 31, 2012 . the cash increase included $487.8 million in operating cash flows, $298.6 million in proceeds from the issuance of senior notes and $46.2 million in proceeds from the sale of our 50% equity interest in ail, partially offset by $458.3 million of share repurchases, $139.1 million in capital expenditures, $76.9 million in dividend payments and $76.8 million in acquisition payments. approximately 11% of our term loan facility is due to mature in 2014 and approximately 12% in 2015 . our senior credit facility matures in october 2018. after the effects of $140.0 million of notional interest rate swaps, approximately 38% of our term loan facility was at fixed rates at december 31, 2013 . as of december 31, 2013 , we had a borrowing capacity of $893.9 million on our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility (including outstanding letters of credit). our revolving credit facility is committed and held by a diversified group of financial institutions. in the third quarter of 2013 we elected not to renew our european loc facility. at december 31, 2013 and 2012, as a result of increases in values of the plan's assets and our contributions to the plan, our u.s. pension plan was fully-funded as defined by applicable law. after consideration of our intent to maintain fully funded status, we contributed $20.0 million to our u.s. pension plan in 2013, excluding direct benefits paid of $4.2 million . we continue to maintain an asset allocation consistent with our strategy to maximize total return, while reducing portfolio risks through asset class diversification. at december 31, 2013, $334.0 million of our total cash balance of $363.8 million was held by foreign subsidiaries, $257.7 million of which we consider permanently reinvested outside the u.s. based on the expected 2013 liquidity needs of our various geographies, we currently do not anticipate the need to repatriate any permanently reinvested cash to fund domestic operations that would generate adverse tax results. however, in the event this cash is needed to fund domestic operations, we estimate the $257.7 million could be repatriated resulting in a u.s. cash tax liability between $5 million and $15 million. should we be required to repatriate this cash, it could limit our ability to assert permanent reinvestment of foreign earnings and invested capital in future periods. outlook for 2014 our future results of operations and other forward-looking statements contained in this annual report, including this md&amp;a, involve a number of risks and uncertainties in particular, the statements regarding our goals and strategies, new product introductions, plans to cultivate new businesses, future economic conditions, revenue, pricing, gross profit margin and costs, capital spending, depreciation and amortization, research and development expenses, potential impairment of investments, tax rate and pending tax and legal proceedings. our future results of operations may also be affected by the amount, type and valuation of share-based awards granted, as well as the amount of awards forfeited due to employee turnover. in addition to the various important 38 factors discussed above, a number of other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. see the risks described in "item 1a. risk factors" of this annual report. our bookings were $4,881.4 million during 2013 . because a booking represents a contract that can be, in certain circumstances, modified or canceled, and can include varying lengths between the time of booking and the time of revenue recognition, there is no guarantee that the increase in bookings will result in a comparable increase in revenues or otherwise be indicative of future results. we expect a continued competitive economic environment in 2014; however, we anticipate benefits from the continuation of our end-user strategy, the strength of our high margin aftermarket business, continued disciplined cost management, our diverse customer base, our broad product portfolio and our unified operating platform. similar to prior years, we expect our results will be weighted towards the second half of the year. while we believe that our primary markets continue to provide opportunities, we remain cautious in our outlook for 2014 given the continuing uncertainty of global economic conditions. for additional discussion on our markets and our opportunities, see the "business overview our markets" section of this md&amp;a. on december 31, 2013 , we had $796.9 million of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding and $370.0 million of variable-rate debt under our senior credit facility. as of december 31, 2013, we had $140.0 million of derivative contracts to convert a portion of variable interest rates to fixed interest rates to reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility. however, because a portion of our debt carries a variable rate of interest, our debt is subject to volatility in rates, which could impact interest expense. we expect our interest expense in 2014 will be higher than 2013 due to our increased level of debt. our results of operations may also be impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2014 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2014, our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and we expect capital expenditures to be between $130 million and $140 million , before consideration of any potential acquisition activity. we have $40.0 million in scheduled principal repayments in 2014 under our senior credit facility, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our senior credit facility in 2014 . see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million, excluding direct benefits paid, in 2014 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $13 million in 2014 , excluding direct benefits paid. 39 contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2013 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) term loan facility and senior notes $ 40.0 $ 105.0 $ 225.0 $ 796.9 $ 1,166.9 fixed interest payments(1) 29.9 59.0 59.0 123.4 271.3 variable interest payments(2) 5.4 8.8 4.8 19.0 other debt and capital lease obligations 32.7 0.7 33.4 operating leases 54.1 75.5 45.6 47.0 222.2 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 503.9 10.0 2.5 0.1 516.5 non-inventory 44.1 0.7 44.8 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 55.4 112.6 121.1 322.6 611.7 total $ 765.5 $ 372.3 $ 458.0 $ 1,290.0 $ 2,885.8 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent net incremental payments under interest rate swap agreements related to the interest payments on the senior notes and term loan facility as defined in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. (2) variable interest payments under our term loan facility were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2013 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2013 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $59.3 million. we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2013 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 484.2 $ 167.2 $ 40.0 $ 11.8 $ 703.2 surety bonds 68.5 25.4 93.9 total $ 552.7 $ 192.6 $ 40.0 $ 11.8 $ 797.1 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 68% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 53% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2013 . the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. 40 our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of primarily u.s. equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") equity and fixed income securities. in addition, certain of our defined benefit plans hold investments in european equity and fixed income securities as discussed in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. assets under our defined benefit pension plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities. at december 31, 2013 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $605.5 million from $553.4 million at december 31, 2012 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2013 2012 u.s. large cap 20 % 28 % u.s. small cap 4 % 4 % international large cap 14 % 14 % emerging markets 5 % 4 % world equity 8 % 0 % equity securities 51 % 50 % liability driven investment 39 % 0 % long-term government/credit 10 % 21 % intermediate bond 0 % 29 % fixed income 49 % 50 % other(1) 0 % 0 % _______________________________________ (1) less than 1% of holdings are in other category in 2013. non-u.s. plans asset category 2013 2012 north american companies 3 % 5 % u.k. companies 10 % 19 % european companies 4 % 6 % asian pacific companies 3 % 5 % global equity 8 % 1 % equity securities 28 % 36 % u.k. government gilt index 28 % 21 % u.k. corporate bond index 21 % 19 % global fixed income bond 20 % 22 % fixed income 69 % 62 % other 3 % 2 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $769.2 million and $763.9 million as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2014 is less than $0.5 million and $15.1 million, respectively. we amortize estimated prior service costs and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment 41 strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $31.5 million and $35.0 million as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. the estimated actuarial net gain for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2014 is $1.4 million. no estimated prior service benefit or cost is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2014. we amortize any estimated net gain over the remaining expected service period of approximately three years. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2013 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $50.5 million compared with $41.4 million in 2012 and $37.8 million in 2011 . the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2013 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 4.50 % 4.22 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.83 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2013 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.00 % 5.49 % discount rate 3.75 4.16 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.84 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.1 ) $ 1.2 effect on benefit obligation (16.2 ) 17.5 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (2.5 ) 2.7 effect on benefit obligation (27.0 ) 30.7 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.2 ) 0.1 effect on benefit obligation (1.1 ) 1.1 42 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.7 ) $ 1.7 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (0.8 ) 0.8 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2013 , as compared with december 31, 2012 , we increased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 3.75% to 4.50% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had a higher yield due to current market conditions. the average discount rate for the non-u.s. plans increased slightly from 4.16% to 4.22% based primarily on rates remaining steady in the eurozone, u.k. and venezuela while all other non-u.s. countries discount rates increased. the average assumed rate of compensation remained constant at 4.25% for the u.s. plan and decreased slightly from 3.84% to 3.83% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2013 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets decreased from 6.25% to 6.00% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 5.78% to 5.49% , primarily as a result of our target asset allocations and expected long-term asset returns. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rate. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $6 million lower in 2014 than the $50.5 million in 2013 , primarily due to the reduction in the amortization of the actuarial net loss. we have used discount rates of 4.50% , 4.22% and 4.00% at december 31, 2013 , in calculating our estimated 2014 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and other postretirement plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 7.5% for 2013 , 8.0% for 2012 and 8.5% for 2011 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2032 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. including direct benefits, we contributed $46.9 million, $28.1 million and $27.0 million to our defined benefit plans in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2014 will be approximately $20 million, excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $13 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2014 , excluding direct benefits paid. for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent losses; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed quarterly by management. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. 43 revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is typically based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectability. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. our contracts typically include cancellation provisions that require customers to reimburse us for costs incurred up to the date of cancellation, as well as any contractual cancellation penalties. we enter into certain agreements with multiple deliverables that may include any combination of designing, developing, manufacturing, modifying, installing and commissioning of flow management equipment and providing services related to the performance of such products. delivery of these products and services typically occurs within a one to two-year period , although many arrangements, such as "short-cycle" type orders, have a shorter timeframe for delivery . we separate deliverables into units of accounting based on whether the deliverable(s) have standalone value to the customer (impact of general rights of return is immaterial). contract value is allocated ratably to the units of accounting in the arrangement based on their relative selling prices determined as if the deliverables were sold separately. revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 7% of our consolidated sales for each year presented. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years . fixed fee service contracts represent approximately 1% of consolidated sales for each year presented. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis, accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined. in circumstances where the total projected revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of penalties or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. 44 reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the united kingdom and the eurozone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. 45 valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in eight reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. an impairment loss for goodwill is recognized if the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2013 , 2012 or 2011 . the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values at december 31, 2013. we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization increased as compared with 2012 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2013 . impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of a trademark by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2013 , 2012 or 2011 . the recoverable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the recoverable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing assumptions similar to those for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2013 , after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had $230.0 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 1.50% . a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $2.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 . at december 31, 2013 and 2012 , we had 46 $140.0 million and $275.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties with varying maturities through june 2015 . foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and, therefore, do not hedge these investments. we use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net (losses) gains associated with foreign currency translation of $(28.9) million , $18.2 million and $(56.8) million for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive income (loss) . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 instruments that meet certain criteria are designated for hedge accounting. as of december 31, 2013 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $616.9 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in forward exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $608.9 million million at december 31, 2012 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of non-designated forward exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net (losses) gains of $(12.6) million , $(21.3) million and $3.7 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, which are included in o ther (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. see discussion of the impact in 2013 of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2013 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2013 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $33 million, due primarily to the euro. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. hedging related transactions for interest rate swaps and designated forward exchange contracts recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) , net of deferred taxes, are summarized in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we expect to recognize losses of $0.3 million , net of deferred taxes, into earnings in 2014 , related to interest rate swap agreements based on their fair values at december 31, 2013 . 47risk factors 14 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2014 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. we conduct our operations through three business segments based on type of product and how we manage the business: engineered product division ("epd") for long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems and replacement parts and related services; industrial product division ("ipd") for pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems and related products and services; and 1 flow control division ("fcd") for engineered and industrial valves, control valves, actuators and controls and related services. our business segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. epd and ipd have a high number of common customers and complementary product offerings and technologies that are often combined in applications that provide us a net competitive advantage. all segments share certain resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("r&amp;d"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. our operations leadership reports to our chief operating officer, and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as r&amp;d, marketing and supply chain. we believe this leadership structure positions the company to leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase shareholders' value. strategies our overarching objective is to grow our position as a product and integrated solutions provider in the flow control industry. this objective includes continuing to sell products by building on existing sales relationships and leveraging the power of our portfolio of products and services. it also includes delivering specific end-user solutions that help customers attain their business goals by ensuring maximum reliability at a decreased cost of ownership. this objective is pursued by cultivating a corporate culture based on workplace safety for our employees, ethical and transparent business practices and a dedicated focus on serving our customers. these three pillars support a collaborative, 'one flowserve' approach that leverages a diverse and inclusive work environment worldwide. we seek to drive increasing enterprise value by using the following strategies: disciplined profitable growth, customer intimacy, innovation and portfolio management, strategic localization, operational excellence, employee focus and sustainable business model. the key elements of these strategies are outlined below. disciplined profitable growth disciplined profitable growth is focused on growing revenues profitably from our existing portfolio of products and services, as well as through the development or acquisition of new customer-driven products and services. its overarching goals are to focus on opportunities that can maximize the organic growth from existing customers and to evaluate potential new customer-partnering initiatives that maximize the capture of products' total life cycle. we believe we are the largest major pump, valve and seal company that can offer customers a differentiated option of flow management products and services across a broad portfolio, as well as offer additional options that include any combination of products and solution support packages. we also seek to continue to review our substantial installed pump, valve and seal base as a means to expand the aftermarket parts and services business, as customers are increasingly using third-party aftermarket parts and service providers to reduce their fixed costs and improve profitability. to date, the aftermarket business has provided us with a steady source of revenues and cash flows at higher margins than are typically realized with original equipment sales. aftermarket sales represented approximately 42% and 40% of total sales in 2014 and 2013 , respectively. we are building on our established presence through an extensive global qrc network to provide the immediate parts, service and technical support required to effectively manage and expand the aftermarket business created from our installed base. customer relationship through our ongoing relationships with our customers, we seek to gain a rich understanding of their business objectives and how our portfolio of offerings can best help them succeed. we collaborate with our customers on the front-end engineering and design work to drive flow management solutions that effectively generate the desired business outcomes. as we progress through original equipment projects, we work closely with our customers to understand and prepare for the long-term support needs for their operations with the intent of maximizing total life cycle value for our customers' investments. we seek to capture additional aftermarket business by creating mutually beneficial opportunities for us and our customers through sourcing and maintenance alliance programs where we provide all or an agreed-upon portion of customers' parts and servicing needs. these alliances enable us to develop long-term relationships with our customers and serve as an effective platform for introducing new products and services and generating additional sales. 2 innovation and portfolio management the ongoing management of our portfolio of products and services is critical to our success. as part of managing our portfolio, we continue to rationalize our portfolio of products and services to ensure alignment with changing market requirements. we also continue to invest in r&amp;d to expand the scope of our product offerings and our deployment of advanced technologies. the infusion of advanced technologies into new products and services continues to play a critical role in the ongoing evolution of our product portfolio. our objective is to improve the percentage of revenue derived from new products as a function of overall sales, utilizing technological innovation to improve overall product life cycle and reduce total cost of ownership for our customers. we employ a robust portfolio management and project execution process to seek out new product and technology opportunities, evaluate their potential return on investment and allocate resources to their development on a prioritized basis. each project is reviewed on a routine basis for such performance measures as time to market, net present value, budget adherence, technical and commercial risk and compliance with customer requirements. technical skill sets and knowledge are deployed across business segment boundaries to ensure that we bring the best capabilities to bear for each project. collectively, our r&amp;d portfolio is a key to our ability to differentiate our product and service offerings from other competitors in our target markets. we are focused on exploring and commercializing new technologies. in many of our research areas, we are teaming with universities and experts in the appropriate scientific fields to accelerate the required learning and to shorten the development time in leveraging the value of applied technologies in our products and services. our intent is to be a market leader in the application of advanced technology to improve product performance and return on investment for our customers. predictive diagnostics and asset management continue to be one of the key areas of effort for us across our business segments. building on the strength of our valvesight, technology advantage solutions and integration with host control systems, we have continued to deploy more diagnostics capabilities into our devices and expand on the equipment that can be monitored continuously. these capabilities continue to provide a key source of competitive advantage in the marketplace and are saving our customers time and money in keeping their operations running. we continually evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investment opportunities to broaden our product portfolio, service capabilities, geographic presence and operational capabilities to meet the growing needs of our customers. we evaluate all investment opportunities through a decision filtering process to ensure a good strategic, financial and cultural fit. strategic localization strategic localization describes our global growth strategy. while we are a global company, we recognize that opportunities still remain. therefore, we strive to advance our presence in geographies that we believe are critical to our future success as a company by focusing on the following areas: expanding our global presence to capture business in developing geographic market areas; utilizing low-cost sourcing opportunities to remain competitive in the global economy; and attracting and retaining the global intellectual capital required to support our growth plans in new geographical areas. we believe there are attractive opportunities in international markets, particularly in africa, china, india, latin america and the middle east, and we intend to continue to utilize our global presence and strategically invest to further penetrate these markets. in the aftermarket services business, we seek to strategically add qrc sites in order to provide rapid response, fast delivery and field repair on a global scale for our customers. we believe that our future success will be supported by investments made to establish indigenous operations to effectively serve the local market while taking advantage of low-cost manufacturing, competent engineering and strategic sourcing where practical. we believe that this positions us well to support our global customers from project conception through commissioning and throughout the life of their operations. for example, we constructed a new pump manufacturing site in china that became operational in 2014 and we are in the process of constructing a new valve manufacturing site in china that will be operational in 2015. we continue to develop and increase our manufacturing, engineering and sourcing functions in lower-cost regions and emerging markets such as india, china, mexico, latin america, the middle east and eastern europe as we drive higher value-add from our supply base of materials and components and satisfy local content requirements. in 2014 , these lower-cost regions supplied our business segments with direct materials ranging from 21% to 37% of business segment spending. 3 operational excellence the operational excellence strategy encapsulates ongoing programs that work to drive increased customer fulfillment and yield internal productivity. this initiative includes: driving improved customer fulfillment through metrics such as on-time delivery, cost reduction, quality, cycle time reduction and warranty cost reduction as a percentage of sales; continuing to develop a culture of continuous improvement that delivers maximum productivity and cost efficiencies; and implementing global functional competencies to drive standardized processes. we seek to increase our operational efficiency through our continuous improvement process ("cip") initiative, which utilizes tools such as value analysis, value engineering, six sigma methodology, lean manufacturing and capacity management to improve quality and processes, reduce product cycle times and lower costs. recognizing that employees are our most valuable resource in achieving operational excellence goals, we have instituted cip training tailored to maximize the impact on our business. to date, we have approximately 2,100 active employees that are cip-trained or certified as "green belts," "black belts" or "master black belts," and are deployed on cip projects throughout our operations and supporting functions of the business. as a result of the cip initiative, we have developed and implemented processes at various sites to reduce our engineering and manufacturing process cycle time, improve on-time delivery and service response time, optimize working capital levels and reduce costs. we have also experienced success in sharing and applying best practices achieved in one business segment and deploying those ideas to other segments of the business. we continue to rationalize existing enterprise resource planning ("erp") systems onto six strategic erp systems. going forward, these six strategic erp systems will be maintained as core systems with standard tool sets, and will be enhanced as needed to meet the growing needs of the business in areas such as e-commerce, back office optimization and export compliance. further investment in non-strategic erp systems will be limited to compliance matters and conversion to strategic erp systems. we also seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on management of accounts receivable and inventory. see further discussion in the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" ("item 7") of this annual report. employee focus we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: institutionalizing our succession planning along with our core competencies and performance management capabilities, with a focus on key positions and critical talent pools; utilizing these capabilities to drive employee engagement through our training initiatives and leadership development programs and facilitate our cross-business segment and functional development assignments; developing talent acquisition programs such as our engineering recruitment program to address current and future critical talent needs to support our emerging markets and global growth; capturing the intellectual capital in the current workforce, disseminating it throughout our company and sharing it with customers as a competitive advantage; creating a total compensation program that provides our associates with equitable opportunities that are competitive and linked to business and individual performance while promoting employee behavior consistent with our code of business conduct and risk tolerance; and building a diverse and globally inclusive organization with a strong ethical and compliance culture based on transparency and trust. we continue to focus on training through the distribution of electronic learning packages in multiple languages for our code of business conduct, workplace harassment, facility safety, anti-bribery, export compliance and other regulatory and compliance programs. we also drive our training and leadership development programs through the deployment of general management development, manager competencies and a series of multi-lingual programs that focus on enhancing people management skills. 4 sustainable business model the sustainable business model initiative is focused on areas that have the potential of adversely affecting our reputation, limiting our financial flexibility or creating unnecessary risk for any of our stakeholders. we proactively administer an enterprise risk management program with regular reviews of high-level matters with our board of directors. we work with our capital sourcing partners to ensure that the terms of our credit facilities and long-term debt are appropriately aligned with our business strategy. we also train our associates on and monitor matters of a legal or ethical nature to support understanding and compliance on a global basis. competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, project management, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand, and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the domestic and global economic environments in 2014 and current forecasts for 2015 , pricing was and may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in each of our three business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies who produce low-cost replications of spare parts. in the oil and gas and chemical industries, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, and our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital expenditure cycle. new product development we spent $40.9 million , $37.8 million and $38.9 million during 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, on company-sponsored r&amp;d initiatives. our r&amp;d group consists of engineers involved in new product development and improvement 5 of existing products. additionally, we sponsor consortium programs for research with various universities and jointly conduct limited development work with certain vendors, licensees and customers. we believe our r&amp;d expenditures are adequate to sustain our ongoing and necessary future product development. in addition, we work closely with our customers on customer-sponsored research activities to help execute their r&amp;d initiatives in connection with our products and services. new product development in each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. we do not believe that we have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2014 revenues. customer information relating to each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 10 to 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. we are a vertically-integrated manufacturer of certain pump and valve products. certain corrosion-resistant castings for our pumps and valves are manufactured at our foundries. other metal castings are either manufactured at our foundries or purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. 6 employees and labor relations we have approximately 18,000 employees globally as of december 31, 2014 . in the united states ("u.s."), a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our pump service center located in cleveland, ohio, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our foundry located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, south africa, sweden and the united kingdom (u.k.) we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2014 revenues. environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at five superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these five sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $338.5 million in 2014 , $355.7 million in 2013 and $304.5 million in 2012 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . engineered product division our largest business segment is epd, through which we design, manufacture, distribute and service custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and related equipment. the business consists of long lead time, highly-engineered, custom-configured products, which require extensive test requirements and superior project management skills, as well as aftermarket services supporting global infrastructure industries. epd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and 7 our regional qrcs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured at 32 plants worldwide, nine of which are located in europe, 11 in north america, seven in asia pacific and five in latin america. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in china, india, japan, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support low-cost sourcing initiatives and capacity demands for other markets. epd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our epd products and globally recognized brands: epd product types between bearings pumps overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems multiphase gas barrier seals reciprocating dry-running seals screw specialty products nuclear pumps power recovery dweer nuclear seals power recovery hydroturbine cryogenic pumps energy recovery devices cryogenic liquid expander cvp concrete volute pumps hydraulic decoking systems wireless transmitters api slurry pumps 8 epd brand names bw seals niigata worthington byron jackson qrc calder energy recovery devices pacific cameron pacific weitz durametallic pac-seal fedd wireless readyseal five star seal united centrifugal flowserve western land roller gaspac wilson-snyder interseal worthington lawrence worthington-simpson lifecycle advantage epd services we provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 126 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 44 countries. our epd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning, repair, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of epd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. epd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow, power and pressure) and under more extreme conditions beyond the level of traditional technology. we continue to develop innovations that improve product performance and our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically targeting pipeline, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. the emergence of extreme pressure applications prompted the development of an advanced stage design and construction of high pressure test capability necessary to validate the technology prior to introduction into the market. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we have been developing new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the modern nuclear power generation plant. in addition to nuclear pump product development, we have focused development efforts on an advanced seal design required to accommodate upset conditions recently identified by the nuclear industry. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements in coke cutting technology, nozzle design and auxiliary equipment improvements, as well as creation of an automated cutting system to improve operator safety. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. application of advanced computational fluid dynamics methods utilizing unsteady flow analysis led to the development of an advanced inlet chamber and impeller vane design for high energy injection water pumps. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. additionally, we are incentivizing our operations and tracking the r&amp;d projects more closely, which is leading to broader engagement in developing new products. in 2014 , epd continued to advance our technology advantage platform through the integrated solutions organization ("iso"). this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our asset management and service capabilities for our end-user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. additionally, we have been exploring the "additive manufacturing" opportunities in our products and auxiliary systems. 9 none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. epd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. epd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with hundreds of competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx corp.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; and weir group plc. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request. epd backlog epd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2014 was $1,492.5 million (including $25.6 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $1,311.4 million (including $21.6 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2013 . we expect to ship 81% of december 31, 2014 backlog during 2015 . industrial product division through ipd we design, manufacture, distribute and service pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems, including submersible motors, for industrial markets. our globalized operating platform, low-cost sourcing and continuous improvement initiatives are essential aspects of this business. ipd's standardized, general purpose pump products are primarily utilized by the oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 13 manufacturing facilities, four of which are located in the u.s. and six in europe. ipd operates 17 qrcs worldwide, including nine sites in europe, four in the u.s., three in asia pacific and one in latin america. additionally, in the first quarter of 2015 we acquired sihi group b.v., a leader in fluid and vacuum pump technologies, which strengthens our offering to the chemical process industry. ipd products we manufacture approximately 40 different active types of pumps available in a wide range of metal alloys and non-metallics with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. the following is a summary list of our ipd products and globally recognized brands: 10 ipd pump product types overhung between bearings chemical process ansi and iso single case axially split industrial process single case radially split slurry and solids handling specialty products vertical molten salt vtp pump wet pit submersible pump deep well submersible motor thruster slurry and solids handling geothermal deepwell sump barge pump positive displacement gear ipd brand names aldrich sier bath durco tkl idp western land roller innomag worthington pacific worthington-simpson pleuger scienco ipd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force and our regional service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. we provide an array of aftermarket services including product installation and commissioning services, spare parts, repairs, re-rate and upgrade solutions, advanced diagnostics and maintenance solutions through our global network of qrcs. ipd new product development our ipd development projects target product feature enhancements, design improvements and sourcing opportunities that we believe will improve the competitive position of our industrial pump product lines. we will invest in our chemical product platform to expand and enhance our products offered to the global chemical industry. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. successful new product release of permanent magnet motor technology in our submersible motor products demonstrated improved product efficiency. we will further our energy efficiency initiatives in response to various global governmental directives. cost reduction projects incorporating product rationalization, value engineering, lean manufacturing and overhead reduction continue to be key drivers for ipd. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. ipd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. 11 ipd competition the industrial pump industry is highly fragmented, with many competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include itt industries, ksb inc. and sulzer pumps. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the chemical industry, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment and our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions. ipd backlog ipd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2014 was $491.4 million (including $ 25.4 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $530.1 million (including $30.0 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2013 . we expect to ship 85% of december 31, 2014 backlog during 2015 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. in addition, fcd offers energy management products such as steam traps, boiler controls and condensate and energy recovery systems. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized and engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 26 principal manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s., 13 of which are located in europe and seven of which are located in asia pacific. fcd operates 32 qrcs worldwide. fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represents one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. 12 the following is a summary list of our generally available valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems digital positioners control valves pneumatic positioners ball valves intelligent positioners gate valves electric/electronic actuators globe valves pneumatic actuators check valves hydraulic actuators butterfly valves diaphragm actuators lined plug valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lined ball valves limit switches lubricated plug valves steam traps non-lubricated plug valves condensate and energy recovery systems integrated valve controllers boiler controls diagnostic software digital communications electro pneumatic positioners valve and automation repair services fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling noble alloy argus norbro atomac nordstrom automax pmv durco serck audco edward schmidt armaturen flowserve valbart gestra valtek kammer vogt limitorque worcester controls mccanna/marpac fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. 13 fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion and fundamental research in material sciences in order to increase the temperature, pressure and corrosion/erosion-resistance limits of existing products, as well as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of epd and ipd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from epc firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include pentair ltd., cameron international corp., emerson electric co., general electric co. and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 25% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that we are the fourth largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2014 was $774.8 million, compared with $769.6 million as of december 31, 2013 . we expect to ship 87% of december 31, 2014 backlog during 2015 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. item 1a. risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. while we believe all known material risks are disclosed, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business 14 operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their industries or markets. despite these favorable conditions, the general health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets may impact investments in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact capital investment decisions and their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market conditions and global economic growth forecasts could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to deliver our sizeable backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2014 , backlog was $2.7 billion. in 2015 , our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, 15 may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end-user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow-growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their supply chain. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe, and political conditions in russia, the middle east, north africa, latin america and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; increased aging and slower collection of receivables, particularly in latin america and other emerging markets; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. 16 for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in russia, the middle east and north africa could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. some of the risks outlined above are particularly prevalent in venezuela. the operating environment in venezuela is challenging, with high inflation, increased risk of political instability and increased government restrictions. as a result of these factors, we have experienced delays in payments from the national oil company in venezuela, our primary venezuelan customer, though these amounts are not disputed and we have not historically had write-offs relating to this customer. going forward, additional government actions, political and labor unrest, or other economic headwinds could have further adverse impacts on our business in venezuela. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar and argentine peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, such as the uk bribery act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. because we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree, our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide. if we are found to be in violation of the fcpa or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business. 17 the company has uncovered actions involving an employee based in an overseas subsidiary that violated our code of business conduct and may have violated the foreign corrupt practices act. the company has terminated the employee, is in the process of completing an internal investigation, and has self-reported the potential violation to the united states department of justice and the united states securities and exchange commission. while the company does not currently believe that this matter will have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, there can be no assurance that the company will not be subjected to monetary penalties and additional costs. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, such as the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing instability in syria and egypt, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at five superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. 18 as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately 18,000 employees, of which approximately 5,800 were located in the u.s. approximately 4.9% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, south africa, sweden and the u.k. no individual unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract, train, develop and retain a skilled workforce. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to effectively replace the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce as workers retire. without a properly skilled and experienced workforce, our costs, including productivity costs and costs to replace employees may increase, and this could negatively impact our earnings. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., india, mexico, the netherlands and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany, japan and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. this impact may be particularly prevalent where we maintain significant concentrations of specified investments, such as the u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. regulations have increased the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans in prior years, which has at times required significant contributions to our pension plans. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other 19 personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $242 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. in addition, tax law changes could negatively impact our deferred tax assets. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. we are also required to maintain certain debt ratings, comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; 20 coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" below. liquidity analysis our cash balance increased by $86.5 million to $450.4 million as of december 31, 2014 as compared with december 31, 2013 . the cash increase included $571.0 million in operating cash flows and $46.8 million in net proceeds from the sale of naval, partially offset by $246.5 million of share repurchases, $132.6 million in capital expenditures, $85.1 million in dividend payments and $40.0 million in payments on long-term debt. 40 approximately 14% of our term loan facility is due to mature in 2015 and approximately 18% in 2016 . our senior credit facility matures in october 2018. after the effects of $40.0 million of notional interest rate swaps, approximately 72% of our total debt was at fixed rates at december 31, 2014 . as of december 31, 2014 , we had a borrowing capacity of $923.2 million on our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility (including outstanding letters of credit). our revolving credit facility is committed and held by a diversified group of financial institutions. in the third quarter of 2013, we elected not to renew our european loc facility. at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , as a result of increases in values of the plan's assets and our contributions to the plan, our u.s. pension plan was fully-funded as defined by applicable law. after consideration of our intent to maintain fully funded status, we contributed $20.0 million to our u.s. pension plan in 2014 , excluding direct benefits paid of $0.7 million . we continue to maintain an asset allocation consistent with our strategy to maximize total return, while reducing portfolio risks through asset class diversification. at december 31, 2014 , $398.4 million of our total cash balance of $450.4 million was held by foreign subsidiaries, $319.9 million of which we consider permanently reinvested outside the u.s. based on the expected 2015 liquidity needs of our various geographies, we currently do not anticipate the need to repatriate any permanently reinvested cash to fund domestic operations that would generate adverse tax results. however, in the event this cash is needed to fund domestic operations, we estimate the $319.9 million could be repatriated resulting in a u.s. cash tax liability between $5 million and $15 million. should we be required to repatriate this cash, it could limit our ability to assert permanent reinvestment of foreign earnings and invested capital in future periods. outlook for 2015 our future results of operations and other forward-looking statements contained in this annual report, including this md&amp;a, involve a number of risks and uncertainties in particular, the statements regarding our goals and strategies, new product introductions, plans to cultivate new businesses, future economic conditions, revenue, pricing, gross profit margin and costs, capital spending, depreciation and amortization, research and development expenses, potential impairment of investments, tax rate and pending tax and legal proceedings. our future results of operations may also be affected by the amount, type and valuation of share-based awards granted, as well as the amount of awards forfeited due to employee turnover. in addition to the various important factors discussed above, a number of other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. see the risks described in "item 1a. risk factors" of this annual report. our bookings were $5,161 million during 2014 . because a booking represents a contract that can be, in certain circumstances, modified or canceled, and can include varying lengths between the time of booking and the time of revenue recognition, there is no guarantee that the increase in bookings will result in a comparable increase in revenues or otherwise be indicative of future results. we believe increased crude oil supply resulted in the significant decline in the price of oil beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014. we believe the lower oil prices will negatively impact oil and gas upstream investment most acutely and impact mid-stream and downstream investment to a lesser extent. in addition, a reduction in the overall level of spending by oil and gas companies could decrease demand for our products and services. however, we believe the long-term fundamentals for this industry remain solid based on current supply, projected depletion rates of existing fields and forecasted long-term demand growth. with our long-standing reputation in providing successful solutions for upstream, mid-stream and downstream applications, along with the advancements in our portfolio of offerings, we believe that we continue to be well-positioned to assist our customers in this challenging environment. we expect a continued competitive economic environment in 2015 . however, we anticipate benefits from the continuation of our end-user strategies, the strength of our high margin aftermarket business, continued disciplined cost management, our diverse customer base, our broad product portfolio and our unified operating platform. similar to prior years, we expect our results will be weighted towards the second half of the year. while we believe that our primary markets continue to provide opportunities, we remain cautious in our outlook for 2015 given the continuing uncertainty of global economic conditions. for additional discussion on our markets and our opportunities, see the "business overview our markets" section of this md&amp;a. on december 31, 2014 , we had $797.2 million of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding and $330.0 million of variable-rate debt under our term loan facility. as of december 31, 2014 , we had $40.0 million of derivative contracts to convert a portion of variable interest rates to fixed interest rates to reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility. however, because a portion of our debt carries a variable rate of interest, our debt is subject to volatility in rates, which could impact interest expense. we expect our interest expense in 2015 will be higher than 2014 due to our increased level of debt associated with 41 2015 acquisition activity. our results of operations may also be impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations and have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2015 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2015 , our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and we expect capital expenditures to be between $150 million and $160 million , before consideration of any acquisition activity. we have $45.0 million in scheduled principal repayments in 2015 under our term loan facility, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our senior credit facility in 2015 . see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid, in 2015 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $12 million in 2015 , excluding direct benefits paid. on january 7, 2015 , we acquired sihi, a global provider of engineered vacuum and fluid pumps and related services for cash of $365.0 million . the acquisition was funded using approximately $110 million in available cash and approximately $255 million in borrowings from our revolving credit facility. sihi is expected to strengthen flowserve's extensive portfolio of products and services through the addition of its engineered vacuum and fluid pumps, as well as the associated aftermarket services and parts. sihi's offerings primarily serve the chemical market, as well as the pharmaceutical, food &amp; beverage and other process industries. sihi's existing installed base and its leading position as a supplier of vacuum and fluid pumps will complement our chemical industry strategy. this acquisition provides flowserve additional engineering and manufacturing experience and the opportunity to leverage our global platform to deliver on the combined financial synergies. sihi, based in the netherlands, has operations primarily in europe and, to a lesser extent, the americas and asia. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2014 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) term loan facility and senior notes $ 45.0 $ 120.0 $ 165.0 $ 797.2 $ 1,127.2 fixed interest payments(1) 29.6 59.0 59.0 93.9 241.5 variable interest payments(2) 5.3 13.0 3.8 22.1 other debt and capital lease obligations 8.1 19.6 27.7 operating leases 49.6 64.7 39.3 63.8 217.4 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 592.9 25.2 1.0 0.1 619.2 non-inventory 26.5 0.3 0.1 26.9 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 55.7 109.6 117.7 319.1 602.1 total $ 812.7 $ 411.4 $ 385.9 $ 1,274.1 $ 2,884.1 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent net incremental payments under interest rate swap agreements related to the interest payments on the senior notes and term loan facility as defined in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. (2) variable interest payments under our term loan facility were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2014 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. 42 (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2014 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $51.5 million. we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2014 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 357.5 $ 151.7 $ 45.4 $ 41.8 $ 596.4 surety bonds 84.1 9.3 0.1 0.2 93.7 total $ 441.6 $ 161.0 $ 45.5 $ 42.0 $ 690.1 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 66% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 55% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2014 . the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of primarily u.s. equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") fixed income securities. in addition, certain of our defined benefit plans hold investments in european equity and fixed income securities as discussed in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. at december 31, 2014 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $642.1 million from $605.5 million at december 31, 2013 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2014 2013 u.s. large cap 19 % 20 % u.s. small cap 4 % 4 % international large cap 14 % 14 % emerging markets 5 % 5 % world equity 8 % 8 % equity securities 50 % 51 % liability driven investment 40 % 39 % long-term government/credit 10 % 10 % fixed income 50 % 49 % other(1) 0 % 0 % _______________________________________ (1) less than 1% of holdings are in other category in 2014 and 2013. 43 non-u.s. plans asset category 2014 2013 north american companies 3 % 3 % u.k. companies 9 % 10 % european companies 4 % 4 % asian pacific companies 3 % 3 % global equity 8 % 8 % equity securities 27 % 28 % u.k. government gilt index 30 % 28 % u.k. corporate bond index 22 % 21 % global fixed income bond 19 % 20 % fixed income 71 % 69 % other 2 % 3 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $808.9 million and $769.2 million as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2015 is approximately $0.6 million and $14.3 million , respectively. we amortize estimated prior service costs and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $33.0 million and $31.5 million as of december 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. the estimated actuarial net gain for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2015 is $0.6 million . the estimated prior service cost that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2015 is $0.2 million . we amortize any estimated net gain over the remaining expected service period of approximately three years. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2014 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $45.5 million compared with $50.5 million in 2013 and $41.4 million in 2012 . 44 the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2014 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 4.00 % 3.40 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.95 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2014 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.00 % 5.51 % discount rate 4.50 4.22 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.83 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.2 ) $ 1.3 effect on benefit obligation (17.6 ) 19.1 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (2.8 ) 3.2 effect on benefit obligation (26.2 ) 29.1 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.2 ) 0.2 effect on benefit obligation (1.1 ) 1.2 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.8 ) $ 1.8 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.0 ) 1.0 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2014 , as compared with december 31, 2013 , we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 4.50% to 4.00% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had a lower yield due to current market conditions. the average discount rate for the non-u.s. plans decreased from 4.22% to 3.40% based on analysis of bonds and other publicly-traded instruments, by country, which had lower yields due to market conditions . the average assumed rate of compensation remained constant at 4.25% for the u.s. plan and increased slightly from 3.83% to 3.95% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2014 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets remained consistent at 6.00% and we increased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 5.49% to 5.51% , primarily due to asset returns greater than expected during the year. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rate. for all us plans, we adopted the rp-2014 mortality tables and the mp-2014 improvement scale published in october 2014. we applied the rp-2014 tables based on the constituency of our plan population for union and non-union participants. we adjusted the improvement scale to utilize 75% of the ultimate improvement rate, consistent with assumptions adopted by the social security administration trustees, based on long-term historical experience. currently, we believe this approach provides the best estimate of our future 45 obligation. most plan participants elect to receive plan benefits as a lump sum at the end of service, rather than an annuity. as such, the updated mortality tables had an immaterial effect on our pension obligation. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $3.3 million lower in 2015 than the $45.5 million in 2014 , primarily due to lower interest cost, an increase in the expected return on assets and the reduction in the amortization of the actuarial net loss. we have used discount rates of 4.00% , 3.40% and 3.75% at december 31, 2014 , in calculating our estimated 2015 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and postretirement medical plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 7.5% for both 2014 and 2013 and 8.0% for 2012 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2025 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. including direct benefits, we contributed $43.5 million , $46.9 million and $28.1 million to our defined benefit plans in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2015 will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $12 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2015 , excluding direct benefits paid. for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent losses; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed at least annually if not quarterly by management. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is typically based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectability. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. our contracts typically include cancellation provisions that require customers to reimburse us for costs incurred up to the date of cancellation, as well as any contractual cancellation penalties. we enter into certain agreements with multiple deliverables that may include any combination of designing, developing, manufacturing, modifying, installing and commissioning of flow management equipment and providing services related to the performance of such products. delivery of these products and services typically occurs within a one to two -year period, although many arrangements, such as "short-cycle" type orders, have a shorter timeframe for delivery . we separate deliverables into units of accounting based on whether the deliverable(s) have standalone value to the customer (impact of general rights 46 of return is immaterial). contract value is allocated ratably to the units of accounting in the arrangement based on their relative selling prices determined as if the deliverables were sold separately. revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 7% of our consolidated sales for each year presented. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years . fixed fee service contracts represent approximately 1% of consolidated sales for each year presented. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis, accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined. in circumstances where the total projected revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of penalties or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for 47 asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the united kingdom and the eurozone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in seven reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the 48 aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. an impairment loss for goodwill is recognized if the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2014 , 2013 or 2012 . the fair values of our reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values at december 31, 2014 . we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization decreased as compared with 2013; however, it did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2014. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of a trademark by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2014 , 2013 or 2012 . the recoverable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the recoverable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing assumptions similar to those for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2014 , after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had $290.0 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 1.51% . a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $3.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . at december 31, 2014 and 2013 , we had $40.0 million and $140.0 million , respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties with varying maturities through june 2015 . foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, 49 mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and, therefore, do not hedge these investments. we use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net (losses) gains associated with foreign currency translation of $(148.6) million , $(28.9) million and $18.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive (loss) income . the net loss in 2014 was primarily driven by the weakening of the euro versus the u.s. dollar at december 31, 2014 as compared with the december 31, 2013 . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 instruments that meet certain criteria are designated for hedge accounting. as of december 31, 2014 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $547.0 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in foreign exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $616.9 million at december 31, 2013 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of non-designated foreign exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net gains (losses) of $2.8 million , $(12.6) million and $(21.3) million for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, which are included in o ther income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. see discussion of the impact in 2013 of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2014 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2014 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $36 million , due primarily to the euro. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. hedging related transactions for interest rate swaps and designated foreign exchange contracts recorded to other comprehensive (loss) income , net of deferred taxes, are summarized in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we expect to recognize losses of $3.8 million , net of deferred taxes, into earnings in the next twelve months related to designated cash flow hedges based on their fair values at december 31, 2014 . 50risk factors 15 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2015 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. we conduct our operations through three business segments based on type of product and how we manage the business: engineered product division ("epd") for long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems and replacement parts and related services; industrial product division ("ipd") for pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems and related products and services; and 1 flow control division ("fcd") for engineered and industrial valves, control valves, actuators and controls and related services. our business segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. epd and ipd have a high number of common customers and complementary product offerings and technologies that are often combined in applications that provide us a net competitive advantage. all segments share certain resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("r&amp;d"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. our operations leadership reports to our chief operating officer, and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as r&amp;d, marketing and supply chain. we believe this leadership structure positions the company to leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase shareholders' value. strategies our overarching objective is to grow our position as a product and integrated solutions provider in the flow control industry. this objective includes continuing to sell products by building on existing sales relationships and leveraging the power of our portfolio of products and services. it also includes delivering specific end-user solutions that help customers attain their business goals by ensuring maximum reliability at a decreased cost of ownership. this objective is pursued by cultivating a corporate culture based on workplace safety for our employees, ethical and transparent business practices and a dedicated focus on serving our customers. these three pillars support a collaborative, 'one flowserve' approach that leverages a diverse and inclusive work environment worldwide. we seek to drive increasing enterprise value by using the following strategies: disciplined profitable growth, customer intimacy, innovation and portfolio management, strategic localization, operational excellence, employee focus and sustainable business model. the key elements of these strategies are outlined below. disciplined profitable growth disciplined profitable growth is focused on growing revenues profitably from our existing portfolio of products and services, as well as through the development or acquisition of new customer-driven products and services. its overarching goals are to focus on opportunities that can maximize the organic growth from existing customers and to evaluate potential new customer-partnering initiatives that maximize the capture of products' total life cycle. we believe we are the largest major pump, valve and seal company that can offer customers a differentiated option of flow management products and services across a broad portfolio, as well as offer additional options that include any combination of products and solution support packages. we also seek to continue to review our substantial installed pump, valve and seal base as a means to expand the aftermarket parts and services business, as customers are increasingly using third-party aftermarket parts and service providers to reduce their fixed costs and improve profitability. to date, the aftermarket business has provided us with a steady source of revenues and cash flows at higher margins than are typically realized with original equipment sales. aftermarket sales represented approximately 43% and 42% of total sales in 2015 and 2014 , respectively. we are building on our established presence through an extensive global qrc network to provide the immediate parts, service and technical support required to effectively manage and expand the aftermarket business created from our installed base. customer relationship through our ongoing relationships with our customers, we seek to gain a rich understanding of their business objectives and how our portfolio of offerings can best help them succeed. we collaborate with our customers on the front-end engineering and design work to drive flow management solutions that effectively generate the desired business outcomes. as we progress through original equipment projects, we work closely with our customers to understand and prepare for the long-term support needs for their operations with the intent of maximizing total life cycle value for our customers' investments. we seek to capture additional aftermarket business by creating mutually beneficial opportunities for us and our customers through sourcing and maintenance alliance programs where we provide all or an agreed-upon portion of customers' parts and servicing needs. these alliances enable us to develop long-term relationships with our customers and serve as an effective platform for introducing new products and services and generating additional sales. 2 innovation and portfolio management the ongoing management of our portfolio of products and services is critical to our success. as part of managing our portfolio, we continue to rationalize our portfolio of products and services to ensure alignment with changing market requirements. we also continue to invest in r&amp;d to expand the scope of our product offerings and our deployment of advanced technologies. the infusion of advanced technologies into new products and services continues to play a critical role in the ongoing evolution of our product portfolio. our objective is to improve the percentage of revenue derived from new products as a function of overall sales, utilizing technological innovation to improve overall product life cycle and reduce total cost of ownership for our customers. we employ a robust portfolio management and project execution process to seek out new product and technology opportunities, evaluate their potential return on investment and allocate resources to their development on a prioritized basis. each project is reviewed on a routine basis for such performance measures as time to market, net present value, budget adherence, technical and commercial risk and compliance with customer requirements. technical skill sets and knowledge are deployed across business segment boundaries to ensure that we bring the best capabilities to bear for each project. collectively, our r&amp;d portfolio is a key to our ability to differentiate our product and service offerings from other competitors in our target markets. we are focused on exploring and commercializing new technologies. in many of our research areas, we are teaming with universities and experts in the appropriate scientific fields to accelerate the required learning and to shorten the development time in leveraging the value of applied technologies in our products and services. our intent is to be a market leader in the application of advanced technology to improve product performance and return on investment for our customers. predictive diagnostics and asset management continue to be one of the key areas of effort for us across our business segments. building on the strength of our valvesight, technology advantage solutions and integration with host control systems, we have continued to deploy more diagnostics capabilities into our devices and expand on the equipment that can be monitored continuously. these capabilities continue to provide a key source of competitive advantage in the marketplace and are saving our customers time and money in keeping their operations running. we continually evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investment opportunities to broaden our product portfolio, service capabilities, geographic presence and operational capabilities to meet the growing needs of our customers. we evaluate all investment opportunities through a decision filtering process to ensure a good strategic, financial and cultural fit. strategic localization strategic localization continues to drive our global growth strategy. while we are a global company, we recognize that opportunities still remain. therefore, we strive to advance our presence in geographies that we believe are critical to our future success as a company by focusing on the following areas: expanding our global presence to capture business in developing geographic market areas; expanding our low cost manufacturing capabilities in south east asia and latin america for local markets and exports; utilizing low-cost sourcing opportunities to remain competitive in the global economy; and attracting and retaining the global intellectual capital required to support our growth plans in new geographical areas. we believe there are attractive opportunities in international markets, particularly in africa, china, india, latin america and the middle east, and we intend to continue to utilize our global presence and strategically invest to further penetrate these markets. in the aftermarket services business, we seek to strategically add qrc sites in order to provide rapid response, fast delivery and field repair on a global scale for our customers. we believe that our future success will be supported by investments made to establish indigenous operations to effectively serve the local market while taking advantage of low-cost manufacturing, competent engineering and strategic sourcing to support both local markets and export. we believe that this positions us well to support our global customers from project conception through commissioning and throughout the life of their operations. for example, we are currently expanding our pump and valve operations in china, valve operations in india and pump operations in mexico. 3 we continue to develop and increase our manufacturing, engineering and sourcing functions in lower-cost regions and emerging markets such as india, china, mexico, latin america, the middle east and eastern europe as we drive higher value-add from our supply base of materials and components and satisfy local content requirements. in 2015 , these lower-cost regions supplied our business segments with direct materials ranging from 22% to 42% of business segment spending. operational excellence the operational excellence strategy encapsulates ongoing programs that work to drive increased customer fulfillment and yield internal productivity. this initiative includes: driving improved customer fulfillment through metrics such as on-time delivery, cost reduction, quality, cycle time reduction and warranty cost reduction as a percentage of sales; continuing to develop a culture of continuous improvement that delivers maximum productivity and cost efficiencies; and implementing global functional competencies to drive standardized processes. we seek to increase our operational efficiency through our continuous improvement process ("cip") initiative, which utilizes tools such as value analysis, value engineering, six sigma methodology, lean manufacturing and capacity management to improve quality and processes, reduce product cycle times and lower costs. recognizing that employees are our most valuable resource in achieving operational excellence goals, we have instituted cip training tailored to maximize the impact on our business. at this date, we have approximately 2,100 active employees that are cip-trained or certified as "green belts," "black belts" or "master black belts," and are deployed on cip projects throughout our operations and supporting functions of the business. as a result of the cip initiative, we have developed and implemented processes at various sites to reduce our engineering and manufacturing process cycle time, improve on-time delivery and service response time, optimize working capital levels and reduce costs. we have also experienced success in sharing and applying best practices achieved in one business segment and deploying those ideas to other segments of the business. we continue to rationalize existing enterprise resource planning ("erp") systems onto six strategic erp systems. going forward, these six strategic erp systems will be maintained as core systems with standard tool sets, and will be enhanced as needed to meet the growing needs of the business in areas such as e-commerce, back office optimization and export compliance. further investment in non-strategic erp systems will be limited to compliance matters and conversion to strategic erp systems. we also seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on management of accounts receivable and inventory. see further discussion in the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" ("item 7") of this annual report. employee focus we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: institutionalizing our succession planning along with our core competencies and performance management capabilities, with a focus on key positions and critical talent pools; utilizing these capabilities to drive employee engagement through our training initiatives and leadership development programs and facilitate our cross-business segment and functional development assignments; developing talent acquisition programs such as our engineering recruitment program to address current and future critical talent needs to support our emerging markets and global growth; capturing the intellectual capital in the current workforce, disseminating it throughout our company and sharing it with customers as a competitive advantage; creating a total compensation program that provides our associates with equitable opportunities that are competitive and linked to business and individual performance while promoting employee behavior consistent with our code of business conduct and risk tolerance; and building a diverse and globally inclusive organization with a strong ethical and compliance culture based on transparency and trust. 4 we continue to focus on training through the distribution of electronic learning packages in multiple languages for our code of business conduct, workplace harassment, facility safety, anti-bribery, export compliance and other regulatory and compliance programs. we also drive our training and leadership development programs through the deployment of general management development, manager competencies and a series of multi-lingual programs that focus on enhancing people management skills. sustainable business model the sustainable business model initiative is focused on areas that have the potential of adversely affecting our reputation, limiting our financial flexibility or creating unnecessary risk for any of our stakeholders. we proactively administer an enterprise risk management program with regular reviews of high-level matters with our board of directors. we work with our capital sourcing partners to ensure that the terms of our credit facilities and long-term debt are appropriately aligned with our business strategy. we also train our associates on and monitor matters of a legal or ethical nature to support understanding and compliance on a global basis. competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, project management, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand, and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the domestic and global economic environments in 2015 and current forecasts for 2016 , pricing was and may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in each of our three business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies. in the oil and gas and chemical industries, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, and our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital expenditure cycle. 5 new product development we spent $45.9 million , $40.9 million and $37.8 million during 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, on company-sponsored r&amp;d initiatives. our r&amp;d group consists of engineers involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. additionally, we sponsor consortium programs for research with various universities and jointly conduct limited development work with certain vendors, licensees and customers. we believe our r&amp;d expenditures are adequate to sustain our ongoing and necessary future product development. in addition, we work closely with our customers on customer-sponsored research activities to help execute their r&amp;d initiatives in connection with our products and services. new product development in each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. we do not believe that we have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2015 revenues. customer information relating to each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 10 to 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. we are a vertically-integrated manufacturer of certain pump and valve products. certain corrosion-resistant castings for our pumps and valves are manufactured at our foundries. other metal castings are either manufactured at our foundries or purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. 6 concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. employees and labor relations we have approximately 19,000 employees globally as of december 31, 2015 . in the united states ("u.s."), a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our pump service center located in cleveland, ohio, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our foundry located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, south africa, sweden and the united kingdom (u.k.). we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2015 revenues. environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at five superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these five sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $295.6 million in 2015 , $338.5 million in 2014 and $355.7 million in 2013 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 16 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 . engineered product division 7 our largest business segment is epd, through which we design, manufacture, distribute and service custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and related equipment. the business consists of long lead time, highly-engineered, custom-configured products, which require extensive test requirements and superior project management skills, as well as aftermarket services supporting global infrastructure industries. epd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and our regional qrcs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured at 33 plants worldwide, 10 of which are located in europe, 11 in north america, seven in asia pacific and five in latin america. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in china, india, japan, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support low-cost sourcing initiatives and capacity demands for other markets. epd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our epd products and globally recognized brands: epd product types between bearings pumps overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems multiphase gas barrier seals reciprocating dry-running seals screw specialty products nuclear pumps power recovery dweer nuclear seals power recovery hydroturbine cryogenic pumps energy recovery devices cryogenic liquid expander cvp concrete volute pumps hydraulic decoking systems wireless transmitters api slurry pumps 8 epd brand names bw seals lifecycle advantage byron jackson niigata worthington calder energy recovery devices qrc cameron pacific durametallic pacific weitz fedd wireless pac-seal five star seal readyseal flowserve united centrifugal gaspac western land roller idp wilson-snyder interseal worthington lawrence worthington-simpson epd services we provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 129 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 47 countries. our epd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning, repair, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of epd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. epd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow, power and pressure) and under more extreme conditions beyond the level of traditional technology. we continue to develop innovations that improve product performance and our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically targeting pipeline, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. the emergence of extreme pressure applications prompted the development of an advanced stage design and construction of high pressure test capability necessary to validate the technology prior to introduction into the market. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we have been developing new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the modern nuclear power generation plant. in addition to nuclear pump product development, we have focused development efforts on an advanced seal design required to accommodate upset conditions recently identified by the nuclear industry. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements in coke cutting technology, nozzle design and auxiliary equipment improvements, as well as creation of an automated cutting system to improve operator safety. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. application of advanced computational fluid dynamics methods utilizing unsteady flow analysis led to the development of an advanced inlet chamber and impeller vane design for high energy injection water pumps. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. additionally, we are incentivizing our operations and tracking the r&amp;d projects more closely, which is leading to broader engagement in developing new products. in 2015 , epd continued to advance our technology advantage platform through the integrated solutions organization ("iso"). this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our asset management and service capabilities for our end-user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. additionally, we have been exploring the "additive manufacturing" opportunities in our products and auxiliary systems. 9 none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. epd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. epd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with hundreds of competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx flow, inc.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; and weir group plc. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request. epd backlog epd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2015 was $1,157.3 million (including $10.5 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $1,573.3 million (including $16.3 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2014 . we expect to ship approximately 92% of december 31, 2015 backlog during 2016 . industrial product division through ipd we design, manufacture, distribute and service pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems, including submersible motors, for industrial markets. our globalized operating platform, low-cost sourcing and continuous improvement initiatives are essential aspects of this business. ipd's standardized, general purpose pump products are primarily utilized by the oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 22 manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s. and 12 in europe. ipd operates 34 qrcs worldwide, including 21 sites in europe, six in the u.s., four in asia pacific and three in latin america. ipd products we manufacture approximately 40 different active types of pumps available in a wide range of metal alloys and non-metallics with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. the following is a summary list of our ipd products and globally recognized brands: 10 ipd pump product types overhung between bearings chemical process asme and iso side channel multistage industrial process segmental channel multistage slurry and solids handling single case axially split single case radially split specialty products vertical ag chem wet pit and suction case api molten salt vtp pump deep well submersible motor submersible pump slurry and solids handling thruster sump geothermal deepwell vacuum systems barge pump sewage submersible vacuum systems liquid ring positive displacement lr systems gear dry systems ipd brand names aldrich sier bath durco sihi halberg tkl idp western land roller innomag worthington labour worthington-simpson meregalli pacific pleuger &amp; byron jackson scienco ipd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force and our regional service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. we provide an array of aftermarket services including product installation and commissioning services, spare parts, repairs, re-rate and upgrade solutions, advanced diagnostics and maintenance solutions through our global network of qrcs. ipd new product development our ipd development projects target product feature enhancements, design improvements and sourcing opportunities that we believe will improve the competitive position of our industrial pump product lines. we will invest in our chemical product platform to expand and enhance our products offered to the global chemical industry. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. successful new product release of permanent magnet motor technology in our submersible motor products demonstrated improved product efficiency. we will further our energy efficiency initiatives in response to various global governmental directives. cost reduction projects incorporating product rationalization, value engineering, lean manufacturing and overhead reduction continue to be key drivers for ipd. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. 11 ipd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. ipd competition the industrial pump industry is highly fragmented, with many competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include itt industries, ksb inc. and sulzer pumps. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the chemical industry, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment and our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions. ipd backlog ipd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2015 was $424.6 million (including $15.7 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $393.9 million (including $18.0 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2014 . we expect to ship approximately 94% of december 31, 2015 backlog during 2016 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. in addition, fcd offers energy management products such as steam traps, boiler controls and condensate and energy recovery systems. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized and engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 26 principal manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s., 13 of which are located in europe, seven of which are located in asia pacific and one of which is located in latin america. fcd operates 32 qrcs worldwide. fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represents one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. 12 our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. the following is a summary list of our generally available valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems digital positioners control valves pneumatic positioners ball valves intelligent positioners gate valves electric/electronic actuators globe valves pneumatic actuators check valves hydraulic actuators butterfly valves diaphragm actuators lined plug valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lined ball valves limit switches lubricated plug valves steam traps non-lubricated plug valves condensate and energy recovery systems integrated valve controllers boiler controls diagnostic software digital communications electro pneumatic positioners valve and automation repair services fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling noble alloy argus norbro atomac nordstrom automax pmv durco serck audco edward schmidt armaturen flowserve valbart gestra valtek kammer vogt limitorque worcester controls mccanna/marpac fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. 13 fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion and fundamental research in material sciences in order to increase the temperature, pressure and corrosion/erosion-resistance limits of existing products, as well as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of epd and ipd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from epc firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include pentair ltd., cameron international corp., emerson electric co., general electric co. and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 25% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that we are the fourth largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2015 was $622.0 million , compared with $774.8 million as of december 31, 2014 . we expect to ship approximately 86% of december 31, 2015 backlog during 2016 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. 14 item 1a. risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. while we believe all known material risks are disclosed, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing, specifically the price of oil, can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their industries or markets. despite these favorable conditions, the general health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets may impact investments in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact capital investment decisions and their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market conditions and global economic growth forecasts could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 we may be unable to deliver our sizeable backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2015 , backlog was $2.2 billion . in 2016 , our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end-user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow-growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their supply chain. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe, and political conditions in russia, the middle east, north africa, latin america and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; increased aging and slower collection of receivables, particularly in latin america and other emerging markets; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; 16 potentially negative consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in russia, the middle east and north africa could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. some of the risks outlined above are particularly prevalent in venezuela. the operating environment in venezuela is challenging, with high inflation, increased risk of political and economic instability and increased government restrictions. as a result of these factors, we have experienced delays in payments from the national oil company in venezuela, our primary venezuelan customer, though these amounts are not disputed and we have not historically had write-offs relating to this customer. going forward, additional government actions, political and labor unrest, or other economic headwinds, including the venezuelan government's inability to fulfill its fiscal obligations, could have further adverse impacts on our ability to fully collect our receivable and our business in venezuela. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar and argentine peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. 17 the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, such as the uk bribery act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. because we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree, our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide. if we are found to be in violation of the fcpa or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, such as the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing instability in syria and egypt, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at five superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately 19,000 employees, of which approximately 5,300 were located in the u.s. approximately 6% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, south africa, sweden and the u.k. no individual unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract, train, develop and retain a skilled workforce. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to effectively replace the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce as workers retire. without a properly skilled and experienced workforce, our costs, including productivity costs and costs to replace employees may increase, and this could negatively impact our earnings. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., canada, india, mexico, the netherlands, switzerland and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany, japan and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. this impact may be particularly prevalent where we maintain significant concentrations of specified investments, such as the u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. regulations have increased the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans in prior years, which has at times required significant contributions to our pension plans. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such 19 insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $250 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. in addition, tax law changes could negatively impact our deferred tax assets. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. we are also required to maintain certain debt ratings, comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; 20 conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. goodwill impairment could negatively impact our net income and stockholders' equity. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. there are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. these risks include, but are not limited to, lowered expectations of future financial results, adverse changes in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, the loss of key personnel, a more-likely-than-not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, a sustained decline in the company's market capitalization, and significant, prolonged negative variances between actual and expected financial results. cybersecurity threats could disrupt our business and result in the loss of critical and confidential information. our information technology networks and related systems and devices are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. cybersecurity breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, misuse, or interruption of sensitive and critical information and functions, including our proprietary information and information related to our customers, suppliers and employees. while we devote substantial resources to maintaining adequate levels of cybersecurity, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all of the rapidly evolving forms of increasingly sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, regulatory actions, theft of intellectual property, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. if we are unable to prevent, detect or adequately respond to security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be materially and adversely affected. if we are not able to successfully execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our strategic realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. in april 2015, we announced cost saving actions and a strategic manufacturing optimization initiative intended to reduce our cost structure and drive an optimized, low-cost manufacturing footprint. this initiative was expanded in the latter half of 2015 and the beginning of 2016 to include additional realignment activities. this initiative will involve reducing our workforce, accelerating structural changes in our global manufacturing footprint through leveraging investments in low-cost regions, additional consolidation of product manufacturing and further selling, general and administrative expense ("sg&amp;a") reductions. while we expect significant financial benefits from our strategic realignment, we may not realize the full benefits that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. adverse effects from our execution of realignment activities could interfere with our realization of anticipated synergies, customer service improvements and cost savings from these strategic initiatives. additionally, our ability to fully realize the benefits and implement the realignment program may be limited by the terms of our credit facilities and other contractual commitments. moreover, because such expenses are difficult to predict and are necessarily inexact, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the execution of our realignment plans in excess of what is currently forecast. further, realignment activities are a complex and time-consuming process that can place substantial demands on management, which could divert attention from other business priorities or disrupt our daily operations. any of these failures could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could constrain our liquidity. 21 if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected, and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our realignment efforts prove ineffective. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk" below. 42 liquidity analysis our cash balance decreased by $83.9 million to $366.4 million as of december 31, 2015 as compared with december 31, 2014 . the cash decrease included $353.7 million of payments for acquisitions, $303.7 million of share repurchases, $181.9 million in capital expenditures, $93.7 million in dividend payments and $45.0 million in payments on long-term debt, partially offset by $417.1 million in operating cash flows and $526.3 million of proceeds from the issuance of the 2022 eur senior notes. approximately 20% of our currently outstanding term loan facility is due to mature in 2016 and 2017 . our senior credit facility matures in october 2020. as of december 31, 2015 , we had a borrowing capacity of $894.8 million on our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility (including outstanding letters of credit). our revolving credit facility is committed and held by a diversified group of financial institutions. at december 31, 2015 and 2014 , as a result of increases in values of the plan's assets and our contributions to the plan, our u.s. pension plan was fully-funded as defined by applicable law. after consideration of our intent to maintain fully funded status, we contributed $20.0 million to our u.s. pension plan in 2015 , excluding direct benefits paid of $1.0 million . we continue to maintain an asset allocation consistent with our strategy to maximize total return, while reducing portfolio risks through asset class diversification. at december 31, 2015 , $322.3 million of our total cash balance of $366.4 million was held by foreign subsidiaries, $236.5 million of which we consider permanently reinvested outside the u.s. based on the expected 2016 liquidity needs of our various geographies, we currently do not anticipate the need to repatriate any permanently reinvested cash to fund domestic operations that would generate adverse tax results. however, in the event this cash is needed to fund domestic operations, we estimate the $236.5 million could be repatriated resulting in a u.s. cash tax liability between $5 million and $15 million. should we be required to repatriate this cash, it could limit our ability to assert permanent reinvestment of foreign earnings and invested capital in future periods. outlook for 2016 our future results of operations and other forward-looking statements contained in this annual report, including this md&amp;a, involve a number of risks and uncertainties in particular, the statements regarding our goals and strategies, new product introductions, plans to cultivate new businesses, future economic conditions, revenue, pricing, gross profit margin and costs, capital spending, expected cost savings from our realignment programs, depreciation and amortization, research and development expenses, potential impairment of investments, tax rate and pending tax and legal proceedings. our future results of operations may also be affected by employee incentive compensation including our annual program and the amount, type and valuation of share-based awards granted, as well as the amount of awards forfeited due to employee turnover. in addition to the various important factors discussed above, a number of other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. see the risks described in "item 1a. risk factors" of this annual report. our bookings were $4,176.8 million during 2015 . because a booking represents a contract that can be, in certain circumstances, modified or canceled, and can include varying lengths between the time of booking and the time of revenue recognition, there is no guarantee that bookings will result in comparable revenues or otherwise be indicative of future results. we believe increased crude oil supply resulted in the significant decline in the price of oil beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014. we believe the lower oil prices will continue to negatively impact oil and gas upstream investment most acutely and impact mid-stream and downstream investment to a lesser extent. in addition, a reduction in the overall level of spending by oil and gas companies could continue to decrease demand for our products and services. however, we believe the long-term fundamentals for this industry remain solid in spite of a near-term down cycle as the industry works through current excess supply with projected depletion rates of existing fields and forecasted long-term demand growth. with our long-standing reputation in providing successful solutions for upstream, mid-stream and downstream applications, along with the advancements in our portfolio of offerings, we believe that we continue to be well-positioned to assist our customers in this challenging environment. we expect a continued competitive economic environment in 2016 . however, we anticipate benefits from the continuation of our end-user strategies, the strength of our high margin aftermarket business, continued disciplined cost management, execution of our realignment programs, our diverse customer base, our broad product portfolio and our unified operating platform. similar to prior years, we expect our results will be weighted towards the second half of the year. while we believe that our primary markets continue to provide opportunities, we remain cautious in our outlook for 2016 given the continuing uncertainty of capital spending in many of our markets and global economic conditions. for additional discussion on our markets and our opportunities, see the "business overview our markets" section of this md&amp;a. 43 on december 31, 2015 , we had $1,337.3 million of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding and $285.0 million of variable-rate debt under our term loan facility. as of december 31, 2015 , we had no variable interest rate to fixed interest rate derivative contracts. however, because a portion of our debt carries a variable rate of interest, our debt is subject to volatility in rates, which could impact interest expense. we expect our interest expense in 2016 will be relatively consistent with amounts incurred in 2015 . our results of operations may also be impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations and have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2016 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2016 , our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and we currently estimate capital expenditures to be between $105 million and $115 million , before consideration of any acquisition activity. we have $60.0 million in scheduled principal repayments in 2016 under our term loan facility, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our senior credit facility in 2016 . see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid, in 2016 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $12 million in 2016 , excluding direct benefits paid. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2015 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) term loan facility and senior notes $ 60.0 $ 120.0 $ 60.0 $ 1,382.3 $ 1,622.3 fixed interest payments(1) 36.3 72.6 72.6 72.6 254.1 variable interest payments(2) 5.7 8.0 1.3 15.0 other debt and capital lease obligations 0.4 8.6 9.0 operating leases 45.5 65.9 40.8 63.8 216.0 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 397.9 10.7 0.4 409.0 non-inventory 55.8 1.0 0.1 56.9 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 58.2 115.5 119.8 314.6 608.1 total $ 659.8 $ 402.3 $ 295.0 $ 1,833.3 $ 3,190.4 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent interest payments on the senior notes and term loan facility as defined in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. (2) variable interest payments under our term loan facility were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2015 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. 44 as of december 31, 2015 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $56.1 million. we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2015 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 390.9 $ 175.7 $ 53.0 $ 29.7 $ 649.3 surety bonds 81.4 7.8 1.9 0.2 91.3 total $ 472.3 $ 183.5 $ 54.9 $ 29.9 $ 740.6 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 64% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 52% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2015 . the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of primarily u.s. equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") fixed income securities. in addition, certain of our defined benefit plans hold investments in european equity and fixed income securities as discussed in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. at december 31, 2015 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans decreased to $639.0 million from $642.1 million at december 31, 2014 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2015 2014 u.s. large cap 19 % 19 % u.s. small cap 4 % 4 % international large cap 14 % 14 % emerging markets 5 % 5 % world equity 8 % 8 % equity securities 50 % 50 % liability driven investment 39 % 40 % long-term government/credit 11 % 10 % fixed income 50 % 50 % 45 non-u.s. plans asset category 2015 2014 north american companies 6 % 3 % u.k. companies 8 % 9 % european companies 3 % 4 % asian pacific companies 2 % 3 % global equity 8 % 8 % equity securities 27 % 27 % u.k. government gilt index 27 % 30 % u.k. corporate bond index 19 % 22 % global fixed income bond 18 % 19 % fixed income 64 % 71 % other 9 % 2 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $812.4 million and $808.9 million as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2016 is approximately $0.5 million and $9.8 million , respectively. we amortize estimated prior service costs and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $28.6 million and $33.0 million as of december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. the estimated actuarial net gain for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2016 is $0.6 million . the estimated prior service cost that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2016 is $0.1 million . we amortize any estimated net gain over the remaining expected service period of approximately three years. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2015 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $40.1 million compared with $45.5 million in 2014 and $50.5 million in 2013 . 46 the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2015 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 4.75 % 3.13 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.00 3.61 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2015 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.25 % 5.03 % discount rate 4.00 3.40 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.95 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.4 ) $ 1.6 effect on benefit obligation (15.5 ) 16.6 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (2.6 ) 2.7 effect on benefit obligation (25.1 ) 28.4 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.3 ) 0.2 effect on benefit obligation (0.9 ) 0.9 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.9 ) $ 1.9 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.1 ) 1.1 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2015 , as compared with december 31, 2014 , we increased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 4.00% to 4.75% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had a higher yield due to current market conditions. the average discount rate for the non-u.s. plans decreased from 3.40% to 3.13% based on analysis of bonds and other publicly-traded instruments, by country, which had lower yields due to market conditions . the average assumed rate of compensation decreased to 4.00% from 4.25% for the u.s. plan and to 3.61% from 3.95% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2015 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets increased to 6.25% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 5.51% to 5.03% , primarily due to asset returns lower than expected during the year. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rate. for all u.s. plans, we adopted the rp-2006 mortality tables and the mp-2015 improvement scale published in october 2015. we applied the rp-2006 tables based on the constituency of our plan population for union and non-union participants. we adjusted the improvement scale to utilize 75% of the ultimate improvement rate, consistent with assumptions adopted by the social security administration trustees, based on long-term historical experience. currently, we believe this approach provides the best estimate of our future obligation. most plan participants elect to receive plan benefits as a lump sum at the end of service, rather than an annuity. as such, the updated mortality tables had an immaterial effect on our pension obligation. 47 we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $3.3 million lower in 2016 than the $40.1 million in 2015 , primarily due to the reduction in the amortization of the actuarial net loss. we have used discount rates of 4.75% , 3.13% and 4.25% at december 31, 2015 , in calculating our estimated 2016 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and postretirement medical plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 7.5% for 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2025 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $43.8 million , $43.5 million and $46.9 million to our defined benefit plans in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2016 will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $12 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2016 , excluding direct benefits paid. for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent loss; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed at least annually if not quarterly by management. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is typically based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectibility. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. our contracts typically include cancellation provisions that require customers to reimburse us for costs incurred up to the date of cancellation, as well as any contractual cancellation penalties. we enter into certain agreements with multiple deliverables that may include any combination of designing, developing, manufacturing, modifying, installing and commissioning of flow management equipment and providing services related to the performance of such products. delivery of these products and services typically occurs within a one to two -year period, although many arrangements, such as "short-cycle" type orders, have a shorter timeframe for delivery . we separate deliverables into units of accounting based on whether the deliverable(s) have standalone value to the customer (impact of general rights of return is immaterial). contract value is allocated ratably to the units of accounting in the arrangement based on their relative selling prices determined as if the deliverables were sold separately. 48 revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 7% of our consolidated sales for each year presented. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years . fixed fee service contracts represent approximately 1% of consolidated sales for each year presented. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis, accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined. in circumstances where the total projected revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of penalties or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the 49 applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the united kingdom and the eurozone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in seven reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. 50 an impairment loss for goodwill is recognized if the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2015, 2014 or 2013; however the estimated fair value of our engineered product operations ("epo") reporting unit reduced significantly in 2015 due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressure experienced in the oil and gas markets which are anticipated to continue in the near to mid-term. the epo reporting unit is a component of our epd reporting segment and is primarily focused on long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems. as of december 31, 2015 our epo reporting unit had approximately $157 million of goodwill and its estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 70%. key assumptions used in determining the estimated fair value of our epo reporting unit included the annual operating plan and forecasted operating results, successful execution of our current realignment programs and identified strategic initiatives, a constant cost of capital, a short-term stabilization and mid to long-term improvement of the macro-economic conditions of the oil and gas market, and a relatively stable world gross domestic product. a 100 basis point increase in our cost of capital would reduce the estimated fair value of our epo reporting unit by approximately 40%, which coupled with a prolonged down cycle of the oil and gas markets, could potentially put our epo reporting unit's goodwill at risk of a future impairment. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our epo reporting unit as of december 31, 2015, we will continue to closely monitor its performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment and reassess accordingly. we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization decreased as compared with 2014; however, it did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2015. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of a trademark by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2015 , 2014 or 2013 . the recoverable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the recoverable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing assumptions similar to those for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. 51 interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2015 , we had $285.0 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 1.86% . a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $2.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2015 . at december 31, 2015 we had no notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties, compared to $40.0 million in december 31, 2014 . foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. in march 2015, we designated 255.7 million of our 500.0 million 2022 eur senior notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net losses associated with foreign currency translation of $174.9 million , $148.6 million and $28.9 million for the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive (loss) income . the net loss in 2015 was primarily driven by the weakening of the euro, brazilian real and argentine peso versus the u.s. dollar at december 31, 2015 as compared with the december 31, 2014 . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 instruments that meet certain criteria are designated for hedge accounting. as of december 31, 2015 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $397.3 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in foreign exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $547.0 million at december 31, 2014 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of non-designated foreign exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net (losses) gains of $(38.7) million , $2.8 million and $(12.6) million for the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, which are included in o ther (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. see discussion of the impact in 2015 and 2013 of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2015 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2015 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $13 million . this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. hedging related transactions for interest rate swaps and designated foreign exchange contracts recorded to other comprehensive (loss) income , net of deferred taxes, are summarized in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we expect to recognize losses of $2.3 million , net of deferred taxes, into earnings in the next twelve months related to designated cash flow hedges based on their fair values at december 31, 2015 . 52risk factors 15 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2016 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. we conduct our operations through three business segments based on type of product and how we manage the business: engineered product division ("epd") for long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems and replacement parts and related services; industrial product division ("ipd") for pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems and related products and services; and 1 flow control division ("fcd") for engineered and industrial valves, control valves, actuators and controls and related services. our business segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. epd and ipd have a high number of common customers and complementary product offerings and technologies that are often combined in applications that provide us a net competitive advantage. all segments share certain resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("r&amp;d"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. our operations leadership reports to our chief operating officer, and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as r&amp;d, marketing and supply chain. we believe this leadership structure positions the company to leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase shareholders' value. our sales, product management and commercialization, r&amp;d and strategy leadership reports to our chief sales and strategy officer. we believe this structure positions the company to execute coordinated customer-centric business and sales strategies, promoting collaboration and best practices across the organization to drive growth. strategies our overarching objective is to grow our position as a product and integrated solutions provider in the flow control industry. this objective includes continuing to sell products by building on existing sales relationships and leveraging the power of our portfolio of products and services to attract new customers. it also includes delivering specific end-user solutions that help customers attain their business goals by ensuring maximum reliability at a decreased cost of ownership. this objective is pursued by cultivating a corporate culture based on workplace safety for our employees, ethical and transparent business practices and a dedicated focus on serving our customers. these three pillars support a collaborative, 'one flowserve' approach that leverages a diverse and inclusive work environment worldwide. we seek to drive increasing enterprise value by using the following strategies: disciplined profitable growth, customer intimacy, innovation and portfolio management, strategic localization, operational excellence, employee focus and sustainable business model. the key elements of these strategies are outlined below. disciplined profitable growth disciplined profitable growth is focused on growing revenues profitably from our existing portfolio of products and services, as well as through the development or acquisition of new customer-driven products and services. its overarching goals are to focus on opportunities that can maximize the organic growth from existing customers and to evaluate potential new customer-partnering initiatives that maximize the capture of products' total life cycle value. we believe we are the largest major pump, valve and seal company that can offer customers a differentiated option of flow management products and services across a broad portfolio, as well as offer additional options that include any combination of products and solution support packages. we also seek to continue to review our substantial installed pump, valve and seal base as a means to expand the aftermarket parts and services business. to date, the aftermarket business has provided us with a steady source of revenues and cash flows at higher margins than are typically realized with original equipment sales. aftermarket sales represented approximately 45% and 43% of total sales in 2016 and 2015 , respectively. we are building on our established presence through an extensive global qrc network to provide the immediate parts, service and technical support required to effectively manage and expand the aftermarket business created from our installed base. customer relationship through our ongoing relationships with our customers, we seek to gain a rich understanding of their business objectives and how our portfolio of offerings can best help them succeed. we collaborate with our customers on the front-end engineering and design work to drive flow management solutions that effectively generate the desired business outcomes. as we progress through original equipment projects, we work closely with our customers to understand and prepare for the long-term support needs for their operations with the intent of maximizing total life cycle value for our customers' investments. we seek to capture additional aftermarket business by creating mutually beneficial opportunities for us and our customers through sourcing and maintenance alliance programs where we provide all or an agreed-upon portion of customers' parts and servicing needs. these alliances enable us to develop long-term relationships with our customers and serve as an effective platform for introducing new products and services and generating additional sales. 2 innovation and portfolio management the ongoing management of our portfolio of products and services is critical to our success. as part of managing our portfolio, we continue to rationalize our portfolio of products and services to ensure alignment with changing market requirements. we also continue to invest in r&amp;d to expand the scope of our product offerings and our deployment of advanced technologies. the infusion of advanced technologies into new products and services continues to play a critical role in the ongoing evolution of our product portfolio. our objective is to improve the percentage of revenue derived from new products as a function of overall sales, utilizing technological innovation to improve overall product life cycle and reduce total cost of ownership for our customers. we employ a robust portfolio management and project execution process to seek out new product and technology opportunities, evaluate their potential return on investment and allocate resources to their development on a prioritized basis. each project is reviewed on a routine basis for such performance measures as time to market, net present value, budget adherence, technical and commercial risk and compliance with customer requirements. technical skill sets and knowledge are deployed across business segment boundaries to ensure that we bring the best capabilities to bear for each project. collectively, our r&amp;d portfolio is a key to our ability to differentiate our product and service offerings from other competitors in our target markets. we are focused on exploring and commercializing new technologies. in many of our research areas, we are teaming with universities and experts in the appropriate scientific fields to accelerate the required learning and to shorten the development time in leveraging the value of applied technologies in our products and services. our intent is to be a market leader in the application of advanced technology to improve product performance and return on investment for our customers. we have a track record of success in the area of remotely monitoring and diagnosing flow control equipment for our customers. our approach is to build on that success by utilizing new technologies and best-in-class technology partners. the growth and acceleration in this space has created new opportunities to build on our existing capabilities, while also creating opportunities to offer more comprehensive solutions that help our customers leverage their infrastructure investments and gain new insight into the performance and reliability of their pump and flow control products. partnering with best-in-class technology vendors provides both flowserve and our partners a mutually beneficial opportunity to deliver solutions that benefit customers by optimizing their operating performance and lowering their total cost of ownership we continually evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investment opportunities to broaden our product portfolio, service capabilities, geographic presence and operational capabilities to meet the growing needs of our customers. we evaluate all investment opportunities through a decision filtering process to ensure a good strategic, financial and cultural fit. strategic localization strategic localization continues to drive our global growth strategy. while we are a global company, we recognize that opportunities still remain. therefore, we strive to advance our presence in geographies that we believe are critical to our future success as a company by focusing on the following areas: expanding our global presence to capture business in developing geographic market areas; expanding our low-cost manufacturing capabilities in southeast asia and latin america for local markets and exports; utilizing low-cost sourcing opportunities to remain competitive in the global economy; and attracting and retaining the global intellectual capital required to support our growth plans in new geographical areas. we believe there are attractive opportunities in international markets, particularly in africa, china, india, latin america and the middle east, and we intend to continue to utilize our global presence and strategically invest to further penetrate these markets. in the aftermarket services business, we seek to strategically add qrc sites in order to provide rapid response, fast delivery and field repair on a global scale for our customers. we believe that our future success will be supported by investments made to establish indigenous operations to effectively serve the local market while taking advantage of low-cost manufacturing, competent engineering and strategic sourcing to support both local markets and export. we believe that this positions us well to support our global customers from project conception through commissioning and throughout the life of their operations. for example, we are currently expanding our pump and valve operations in china, valve operations in india and pump operations in mexico. 3 we continue to develop and increase our manufacturing, engineering and sourcing functions in lower-cost regions and emerging markets such as india, china, mexico, latin america, the middle east and eastern europe as we drive higher value-add from our supply base of materials and components and satisfy local content requirements. in 2016 , these lower-cost regions supplied our business segments with direct materials ranging from 25% to 35% of business segment spending. operational excellence the operational excellence strategy encapsulates ongoing programs that work to drive increased customer fulfillment and yield internal productivity. this initiative includes: driving improved customer fulfillment through metrics such as on-time delivery, cost reduction, quality, cycle time reduction and warranty cost reduction as a percentage of sales; continuing to develop a culture of continuous improvement that delivers maximum productivity and cost efficiencies; and implementing global functional competencies to drive standardized processes. we seek to increase our operational efficiency through our continuous improvement process ("cip") initiative, which utilizes tools such as value analysis, value engineering, six sigma methodology, lean manufacturing and capacity management to improve quality and processes, reduce product cycle times and lower costs. recognizing that employees are our most valuable resource in achieving operational excellence goals, we have instituted cip training tailored to maximize the impact on our business. at this date, we have approximately 1,700 active employees that are cip-trained or certified as "green belts," "black belts" or "master black belts," and are deployed on cip projects throughout our operations and supporting functions of the business. as a result of the cip initiative, we have developed and implemented processes at various sites to reduce our engineering and manufacturing process cycle time, improve on-time delivery and service response time, optimize working capital levels and reduce costs. we have also experienced success in sharing and applying best practices achieved in one business segment and deploying those ideas to other segments of the business. we continue to rationalize existing enterprise resource planning ("erp") systems onto six strategic erp systems. going forward, these six strategic erp systems will be maintained as core systems with standard tool sets, and will be enhanced as needed to meet the growing needs of the business in areas such as e-commerce, back office optimization and export compliance. further investment in non-strategic erp systems will be limited to compliance matters and conversion to strategic erp systems. we also seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on management of accounts receivable and inventory. see further discussion in the "liquidity and capital resources" section of "item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" ("item 7") of this annual report. employee focus we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: institutionalizing our succession planning along with our core competencies and performance management capabilities, with a focus on key positions and critical talent pools; utilizing these capabilities to drive employee engagement through our training initiatives and leadership development programs and facilitate our cross-business segment and functional development assignments; developing talent acquisition programs to address current and future critical talent needs to support our emerging markets and global growth; capturing the intellectual capital in the current workforce, disseminating it throughout our company and sharing it with customers as a competitive advantage; creating a total compensation program that provides our associates with equitable opportunities that are competitive and linked to business and individual performance while promoting employee behavior consistent with our code of business conduct and risk tolerance; and building a diverse and globally inclusive organization with a strong ethical and compliance culture based on transparency and trust. 4 we continue to focus on training through the distribution of electronic learning packages in multiple languages for our code of business conduct, workplace harassment, facility safety, anti-bribery, export compliance and other regulatory and compliance programs. we also drive our training and leadership development programs through the deployment of general management development, manager competencies and a series of multi-lingual programs that focus on enhancing people management skills. sustainable business model the sustainable business model initiative is focused on areas that have the potential of adversely affecting our reputation, limiting our financial flexibility or creating unnecessary risk for any of our stakeholders. we proactively administer an enterprise risk management program with regular reviews of high-level matters with our board of directors. we work with our capital sourcing partners to ensure that the terms of our credit facilities and long-term debt are appropriately aligned with our business strategy. we also train our associates on and monitor matters of a legal or ethical nature to support understanding and compliance on a global basis. competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, project management, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand, and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the domestic and global economic environments in 2016 and current forecasts for 2017 , pricing was and may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in each of our three business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies. in the oil and gas and chemical industries, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, as well as our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital and operating expenditure cycles. 5 new product development we spent $42.8 million , $45.9 million and $40.9 million during 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, on company-sponsored r&amp;d initiatives. our r&amp;d group consists of engineers involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. additionally, we sponsor consortium programs for research with various universities and jointly conduct limited development work with certain vendors, licensees and customers. we believe our r&amp;d expenditures are adequate to sustain our ongoing and necessary future product development. in addition, we work closely with our customers on customer-sponsored research activities to help execute their r&amp;d initiatives in connection with our products and services. new product development in each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. we believe that we do not have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2016 revenues. customer information relating to each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 10 to 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. metal castings used in the manufacture of our pump, valve, and mechanical seals are purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. we remain vertically integrated with metal castings in certain strategic product families. 6 concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. employees and labor relations we have approximately 18,000 employees globally as of december 31, 2016 . in the united states ("u.s."), a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our foundry located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, finland, france, germany, india, italy, mexico, the netherlands, spain, south africa, sweden, thailand and the united kingdom ("u.k."). we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2016 revenues. environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at five superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these five sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $259.1 million in 2016 , $295.6 million in 2015 and $338.5 million in 2014 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 16 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . 7 engineered product division our largest business segment is epd, through which we design, manufacture, distribute and service custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and related services. epd includes longer lead time, highly-engineered pump products, and shorter cycle engineered pumps and mechanical seals that are generally manufactured within shorter lead times. epd also manufactures replacement parts and related equipment and provides a full array of replacement parts, repair and support services (collectively referred to as "aftermarket"). epd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and our regional qrcs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured at 32 plants worldwide, 10 of which are located in europe, 10 in north america, seven in asia pacific and five in latin america. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in china, india, japan, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support low-cost sourcing initiatives and capacity demands for other markets. epd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our epd products and globally recognized brands: epd product types between bearings pumps overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems multiphase gas barrier seals screw dry-running seals specialty products nuclear pumps power recovery dweer nuclear seals power recovery hydroturbine cryogenic pumps energy recovery devices cvp concrete volute pumps hydraulic decoking systems wireless transmitters api slurry pumps 8 epd brand names bw seals lifecycle advantage byron jackson niigata worthington calder energy recovery devices qrc cameron pacific durametallic pacific weitz fedd wireless pac-seal five star seal readyseal flowserve united centrifugal gaspac western land roller idp wilson-snyder interseal worthington lawrence worthington-simpson epd services we provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 123 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 47 countries. our epd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning, repair, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of epd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. epd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow, power and pressure) and under more extreme conditions beyond the level of traditional technology. we continue to develop innovations that improve product performance and our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically targeting pipeline, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. the emergence of extreme pressure applications prompted the development of an advanced stage design and construction of high pressure test capability necessary to validate the technology prior to introduction into the market. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we continue to develop new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the modern nuclear power generation plant. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements in coke cutting technology, nozzle design and auxiliary equipment improvements, as well as creation of an automated cutting system to improve operator safety. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. application of advanced computational fluid dynamics methods utilizing unsteady flow analysis led to the development of an advanced inlet chamber and impeller vane design for high energy injection water pumps. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. additionally, we are incentivizing our operations and tracking the r&amp;d projects more closely, which is leading to broader engagement in developing new products. in 2016 , epd continued to advance our insight platform (formerly known as technology advantage) through the integrated solutions organization ("iso"). this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our asset management and service capabilities for our end-user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. additionally, we have been exploring the "additive manufacturing" opportunities in our products and auxiliary systems. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material to our business. 9 epd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, power generation, chemical, water management and general industries. epd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with hundreds of competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx flow, inc.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; and weir group plc. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request. epd backlog epd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2016 was $966.8 million (including $11.7 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $1,157.3 million (including $10.5 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2015 . we expect to ship approximately 87% of december 31, 2016 backlog during 2017 . industrial product division through ipd we design, manufacture, distribute and service pre-configured engineered pumps and pump systems, including submersible motors, for industrial markets. our globalized operating platform, low-cost sourcing and continuous improvement initiatives are essential aspects of this business. ipd's standardized, general purpose pump products are primarily utilized by the oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 20 manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s and 10 in europe, four in asia, one in latin america . ipd operates 32 qrcs worldwide, including 20 sites in europe, six in the u.s., three in asia pacific and three in latin america. ipd products we manufacture approximately 40 different active types of pumps, which are available in a wide range of metal alloys and non-metallics with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. the following is a summary list of our ipd products and globally recognized brands: 10 ipd pump product types overhung between bearings chemical process asme and iso side channel multistage industrial process segmental channel multistage slurry and solids handling single case axially split single case radially split specialty products vertical ag chem wet pit and suction case api molten salt vtp pump deep well submersible motor submersible pump slurry and solids handling thruster sump geothermal deepwell vacuum systems barge pump sewage submersible vacuum systems liquid ring positive displacement lr systems gear dry systems ipd brand names aldrich sier bath durco sihi halberg tkl idp western land roller innomag worthington labour worthington-simpson meregalli pacific pleuger &amp; byron jackson scienco ipd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force and our regional service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. we provide an array of aftermarket services including product installation and commissioning services, spare parts, repairs, re-rate and upgrade solutions, advanced diagnostics and maintenance solutions through our global network of qrcs. ipd new product development our ipd development projects target product feature enhancements, design improvements and sourcing opportunities that we believe will improve the competitive position of our industrial pump product lines. we will invest in our chemical product platform to expand and enhance our products offered to the global chemical industry. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. successful new product release of permanent magnet motor technology in our submersible motor products demonstrated improved product efficiency. we will further our energy efficiency initiatives in response to various global governmental directives. cost reduction projects incorporating product rationalization, value engineering, lean manufacturing and overhead reduction continue to be key drivers for ipd. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. 11 ipd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, chemical, water management, power generation and general industries. ipd competition the industrial pump industry is highly fragmented, with many competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include itt industries, ksb inc. and sulzer pumps. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the chemical industry, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment and our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions. ipd backlog ipd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2016 was $373.5 million (including $14.2 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $424.6 million (including $15.7 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2015 . we expect to ship approximately 90% of december 31, 2016 backlog during 2017 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. in addition, fcd offers energy management products such as steam traps, boiler controls and condensate and energy recovery systems. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized and engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 26 principal manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s., 13 located in europe, seven located in asia pacific and one located in latin america. fcd operates 32 qrcs worldwide, including 11 sites in europe, 11 in the u.s., nine in asia pacific and one in latin america. fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represents one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. 12 our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. the following is a summary list of our generally available valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems digital positioners control valves pneumatic positioners ball valves intelligent positioners gate valves electric/electronic actuators globe valves pneumatic actuators check valves hydraulic actuators butterfly valves diaphragm actuators lined plug valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lined ball valves limit switches lubricated plug valves steam traps non-lubricated plug valves condensate and energy recovery systems integrated valve controllers boiler controls diagnostic software digital communications electro pneumatic positioners valve and automation repair services fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling noble alloy argus norbro atomac nordstrom automax pmv durco serck audco edward schmidt armaturen flowserve valbart gestra valtek kammer vogt limitorque worcester controls mccanna/marpac fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. 13 fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion and fundamental research in material sciences in order to increase the temperature, pressure and corrosion/erosion-resistance limits of existing products, as well as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of epd and ipd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from epc firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include pentair ltd., cameron international corp. (a schlumberger company), emerson electric co., general electric co. and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 25% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that we are the fourth largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2016 was $584.5 million , compared with $622.0 million as of december 31, 2015 . we expect to ship approximately 87% of december 31, 2016 backlog during 2017 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. 14 item 1a. risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. while we believe all known material risks are disclosed, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing, specifically the price of oil, can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their industries or markets. despite these favorable conditions, the general health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets may impact investments in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact capital investment decisions and their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market conditions and global economic growth forecasts could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 we may be unable to deliver our backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2016 , backlog was $1.9 billion . in 2017 , our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end-user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow-growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their supply chain. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india and latin america. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe, and political conditions in russia, the middle east, north africa, latin america and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; political or economic instability relating to the recent brexit referendum in the united kingdom; uncertainties related to any geopolitical, economic and regulatory effects or changes due to the 2016 u.s. presidential election; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; 16 increased aging and slower collection of receivables, particularly in latin america and other emerging markets; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in russia, the middle east and north africa could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. some of the risks outlined above are particularly prevalent in venezuela. the operating environment in venezuela is challenging, with high inflation, increased risk of political and economic instability and increased government restrictions. as a result of these factors, we have experienced delays in payments from the national oil company in venezuela, our primary venezuelan customer, though these amounts are not disputed. due to certain actions of this customer and the diminished activity of business and payments in 2016, we have estimated that our ability to fully collect the accounts receivable from our primary venezuelan customer has become less than probable and we recorded a charge to selling, general and administrative expense ("sg&amp;a") to fully reserve for those potential uncollectible accounts receivable and a charge to cost of sales ("cos")to reserve for related net inventory exposures. for additional information, see the discussion in item 7 of this annual report and under note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. going forward, additional government actions, political and labor unrest, or other economic headwinds, including the venezuelan government's inability to fulfill its fiscal obligations, could have further adverse impacts on our ability to fully collect our receivable and our business in venezuela. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. there may be uncertainty as to the position the u.s. will take with respect to world affairs and events following the 2016 u.s. presidential election and related change in the u.s. political agenda, coupled with the transition of administrations. this uncertainty may relate to such issues as the new administration's support or plans for new or existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries, such as the january 2017 u.s. withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership, which may affect restrictions or tariffs imposed on products we buy or sell. this uncertainty, together with other key global events during 17 2016 (such as the continuing uncertainty arising from the brexit referendum in the u.k. as well as ongoing terrorist activity), may adversely impact the ability or willingness of non-u.s. companies to transact business in the u.s. this uncertainty may also affect regulations and trade agreements affecting u.s. companies, global stock markets (including the nyse, on which our common shares are traded), currency exchange rates, and general global economic conditions. all of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar and argentine peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, such as the uk bribery act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. because we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree, our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide. if we are found to be in violation of the fcpa or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, such as the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing instability in syria and egypt, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at five superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to 18 be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that coverage or payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately 18,000 employees, of which approximately 5,000 were located in the u.s. approximately 5% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, finland, france, germany, india, italy, mexico, the netherlands, spain, south africa, sweden, thailand and the u.k. no individual unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract, train, develop and retain a skilled workforce. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to effectively replace the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce as workers retire. without a properly skilled and experienced workforce, our costs, including productivity costs and costs to replace employees may increase, and this could negatively impact our earnings. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for officers and employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. we have recently experienced changes in our senior management, including the resignation and retirement of mark a. blinn, our president and chief executive officer, effective march 31, 2017, and the hiring of his successor, r. scott rowe. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could 19 be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., belgium, canada, india, italy, mexico, the netherlands, switzerland and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany, japan and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. this impact may be particularly prevalent where we maintain significant concentrations of specified investments, such as the u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. regulations have increased the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans in prior years, which has at times required significant contributions to our pension plans. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $290 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. in addition, tax law changes could negatively impact our deferred tax assets. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d 20 efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. we are also required to maintain certain debt ratings, comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. goodwill impairment could negatively impact our net income and stockholders' equity. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. reductions in or impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. there are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. these risks include, but are not limited to, lowered expectations of future financial results, adverse changes in the business climate, increase in the discount rate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, the loss of key personnel, a more-likely-than-not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, a sustained decline 21 in the company's market capitalization, and significant, prolonged negative variances between actual and expected financial results. in recent years, the estimated fair value of epo and ipd have fluctuated, partially due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressures experienced in the oil and gas markets. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our epo and ipd reporting units as of december 31, 2016, we will continue to monitor their performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment. for additional information, see the discussion in item 7 of this annual report and under note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. cybersecurity threats could disrupt our business and result in the loss of critical and confidential information. our information technology networks and related systems and devices are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. cybersecurity breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, misuse, or interruption of sensitive and critical information and functions, including our proprietary information and information related to our customers, suppliers and employees. while we devote substantial resources to maintaining adequate levels of cybersecurity, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all of the rapidly evolving forms of increasingly sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, regulatory actions, theft of intellectual property, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. if we are unable to prevent, detect or adequately respond to security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be materially and adversely affected. if we are not able to successfully execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our strategic realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. in april 2015, we announced cost saving actions and a strategic manufacturing optimization initiative intended to reduce our cost structure and drive an optimized, low-cost manufacturing footprint. this initiative was expanded in the latter half of 2015 and the beginning of 2016 to include additional realignment activities that will continue beyond 2016 . this initiative will involve reducing our workforce, accelerating structural changes in our global manufacturing footprint through leveraging investments in low-cost regions, additional consolidation of product manufacturing and further sg&amp;a reductions. while we expect significant financial benefits from our strategic realignment, we may not realize the full benefits that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. adverse effects from our execution of realignment activities could interfere with our realization of anticipated synergies, customer service improvements and cost savings from these strategic initiatives. additionally, our ability to fully realize the benefits and implement the realignment program may be limited by the terms of our credit facilities and other contractual commitments. moreover, because such expenses are difficult to predict and are necessarily inexact, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the execution of our realignment plans in excess of what is currently forecast. further, realignment activities are a complex and time-consuming process that can place substantial demands on management, which could divert attention from other business priorities or disrupt our daily operations. any of these failures could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could constrain our liquidity. if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected, and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our realignment efforts prove ineffective. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and 22 new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations and have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2017 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2017 , our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and we currently estimate capital expenditures to be between $80 million and $90 million , before consideration of any acquisition activity. we have $60.0 million in scheduled principal repayments in 2017 under our term loan facility, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our senior credit facility in 2017 . see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid, in 2017 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $6 million in 2017 , excluding direct benefits paid. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2016 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) term loan facility and senior notes $ 60.0 $ 119.3 $ 45.0 $ 1,313.1 $ 1,537.4 fixed interest payments(1) 36.1 72.2 72.2 36.3 216.8 variable interest payments(2) 4.9 7.0 0.8 12.7 other debt and capital lease obligations 25.4 7.9 33.3 operating leases 48.6 67.4 42.9 65.3 224.2 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 320.1 13.9 334.0 non-inventory 45.4 0.5 45.9 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 58.6 115.7 121.8 299.6 595.7 total $ 599.1 $ 403.9 $ 282.7 $ 1,714.3 $ 3,000.0 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent interest payments on the senior notes and term loan facility as defined in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. (2) variable interest payments under our term loan facility were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2016 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. 44 (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2016 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $59.3 million . we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2016 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 287.2 $ 162.2 $ 43.6 $ 30.4 $ 523.4 surety bonds 71.9 4.1 0.2 76.2 total $ 359.1 $ 166.3 $ 43.8 $ 30.4 $ 599.6 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 65% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 54% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2016 . the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of primarily u.s. equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") fixed income securities , as discussed in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. at december 31, 2016 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $642.3 million from $639.0 million at december 31, 2015 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2016 2015 u.s. large cap 20 % 19 % u.s. small cap 4 % 4 % international large cap 14 % 14 % emerging markets 5 % 5 % world equity 8 % 8 % equity securities 51 % 50 % liability driven investment 39 % 39 % long-term government/credit 10 % 11 % fixed income 49 % 50 % 45 non-u.s. plans asset category 2016 2015 north american companies 7 % 6 % u.k. companies % 8 % european companies % 3 % asian pacific companies % 2 % global equity 8 % 8 % equity securities 15 % 27 % u.k. government gilt index 31 % 27 % u.k. corporate bond index 1 % 19 % global fixed income bond 2 % 18 % liability driven investment 11 % % fixed income 45 % 64 % multi-asset 25 % % buy-in contract 9 % % other 6 % 9 % other types 40 % 9 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $833.5 million and $812.4 million as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2017 is approximately $0.1 million and $9.5 million , respectively. we amortize estimated prior service costs and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $27.3 million and $28.6 million as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2017 is $0.1 million . the estimated prior service cost that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2017 is $0.1 million . we amortize any estimated net loss over the remaining expected service period of approximately three years. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2016 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $37.5 million compared with $40.1 million in 2015 and $45.5 million in 2014 . 46 the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2016 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 4.00 % 2.34 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.00 3.22 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2016 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.00 % 4.68 % discount rate 4.75 3.13 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.00 3.61 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.3 ) $ 1.3 effect on benefit obligation (16.8 ) 18.2 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (2.5 ) 2.6 effect on benefit obligation (26.9 ) 30.6 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.1 ) effect on benefit obligation (0.9 ) 0.9 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (2.0 ) $ 2.0 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.1 ) 1.1 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2016 , as compared with december 31, 2015 , we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 4.75% to 4.00% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had lower yields due to current market conditions. the average discount rate for the non-u.s. plans decreased from 3.13% to 2.34% based on analysis of bonds and other publicly-traded instruments, by country, which had lower yields due to market conditions . the average assumed rate of compensation remained relatively constant at approximately 4.00% for the u.s. plan and decreased to 3.22% from 3.61% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2016 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets decreased to 6.00% from 6.25% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 5.03% to 4.68% , primarily based on our target allocations and expected long-term asset returns. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rate. for all u.s. plans, we adopted the rp-2006 mortality tables and the mp-2016 improvement scale published in october 2016. we applied the rp-2006 tables based on the constituency of our plan population for union and non-union participants. we adjusted the improvement scale to utilize 75% of the ultimate improvement rate, consistent with assumptions adopted by the social security administration trustees, based on long-term historical experience. currently, we believe this approach provides the best estimate of our future obligation. most plan participants elect to receive plan benefits as a lump sum at the end of service, rather than an annuity. as such, the updated mortality tables had an immaterial effect on our pension obligation. 47 we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $3.5 million lower in 2017 than the $37.5 million in 2016 , primarily due to the reduction in the amortization of the actuarial net loss. we have used discount rates of 4.00% , 2.34% and 3.75% at december 31, 2016 , in calculating our estimated 2017 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and postretirement medical plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 7.5% for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2025 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $42.5 million , $43.8 million and $43.5 million to our defined benefit plans in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2017 will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $6 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2017 , excluding direct benefits paid. for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent loss; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed at least annually if not quarterly by management. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is typically based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectibility. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. our contracts typically include cancellation provisions that require customers to reimburse us for costs incurred up to the date of cancellation, as well as any contractual cancellation penalties. we enter into certain agreements with multiple deliverables that may include any combination of designing, developing, manufacturing, modifying, installing and commissioning of flow management equipment and providing services related to the performance of such products. delivery of these products and services typically occurs within a one to two -year period, although many arrangements, such as "short-cycle" type orders, have a shorter timeframe for delivery . we separate deliverables into units of accounting based on whether the deliverable(s) have standalone value to the customer (impact of general rights of return is immaterial). contract value is allocated ratably to the units of accounting in the arrangement based on their relative selling prices determined as if the deliverables were sold separately. revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with 48 progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 7% of our consolidated sales for each year presented. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years . fixed fee service contracts represent approximately 1% of consolidated sales for each year presented. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis, accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined. in circumstances where the total projected revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of penalties or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and 49 dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the u.k. and the eurozone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in five reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. an impairment loss for goodwill is recognized if the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, 50 business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2016, 2015 or 2014; however the estimated fair value of our engineered product operations ("epo") and ipd reporting units reduced significantly due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressure experienced in the oil and gas markets which are anticipated to continue in the near to mid-term. the epo reporting unit is a component of our epd reporting segment and is primarily focused on long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems. as of december 31, 2016 our epo reporting unit had approximately $156 million of goodwill and its estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 45%. in addition, our ipd reporting unit, which is primarily focused on pre-configured industrial pumps and pump systems had approximately $298 million of goodwill and it fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 70%. key assumptions used in determining the estimated fair value of our epo and ipd reporting units included the annual operating plan and forecasted operating results, successful execution of our current realignment programs and identified strategic initiatives, a constant cost of capital, a short-term stabilization and mid to long-term improvement of the macro-economic conditions of the oil and gas market, and a relatively stable global gross domestic product. a 100 basis point increase in our cost of capital would reduce the estimated fair values of both epo and ipd reporting units by approximately 13%, which coupled with a prolonged down cycle of the oil and gas markets, could potentially put both reporting units' goodwill at risk of a future impairment. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our epo and ipd reporting units as of december 31, 2016, we will continue to closely monitor their performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment and reassess accordingly. we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization increased as compared with 2015 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2016. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of a trademark by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . the recoverable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the recoverable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing assumptions similar to those for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2016 , we had $224.3 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 2.25% . a hypothetical change 51 of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $2.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona, russian ruble, malaysian ringgit and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. in march 2015, we designated 255.7 million of our 500.0 million 2022 eur senior notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net losses associated with foreign currency translation of $72.1 million , $174.9 million and $148.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive loss . the net loss in 2016 was primarily driven by the weakening of the british pound, euro and mexican peso versus the u.s. dollar at december 31, 2016 as compared with december 31, 2015 . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 instruments that meet certain criteria are designated for hedge accounting. as of december 31, 2016 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $393.8 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in foreign exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $397.3 million at december 31, 2015 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of non-designated foreign exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net gains (losses) of $3.8 million , $(38.7) million and $2.8 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, which are included in o ther income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. see discussion of the impact in 2015 of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2016 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2016 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $5 million . this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. hedging related transactions for designated foreign exchange contracts recorded to other comprehensive loss , net of deferred taxes, are summarized in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we expect to recognize losses of $0.1 million , net of deferred taxes, into earnings in the next twelve months related to designated cash flow hedges based on their fair values at december 31, 2016 . 52quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations and have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2017 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2017 , our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and we currently estimate capital expenditures to be between $80 million and $90 million , before consideration of any acquisition activity. we have $60.0 million in scheduled principal repayments in 2017 under our term loan facility, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our senior credit facility in 2017 . see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid, in 2017 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $6 million in 2017 , excluding direct benefits paid. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2016 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) term loan facility and senior notes $ 60.0 $ 119.3 $ 45.0 $ 1,313.1 $ 1,537.4 fixed interest payments(1) 36.1 72.2 72.2 36.3 216.8 variable interest payments(2) 4.9 7.0 0.8 12.7 other debt and capital lease obligations 25.4 7.9 33.3 operating leases 48.6 67.4 42.9 65.3 224.2 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 320.1 13.9 334.0 non-inventory 45.4 0.5 45.9 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 58.6 115.7 121.8 299.6 595.7 total $ 599.1 $ 403.9 $ 282.7 $ 1,714.3 $ 3,000.0 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent interest payments on the senior notes and term loan facility as defined in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. (2) variable interest payments under our term loan facility were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2016 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. 41 (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2016 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $59.3 million . we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2016 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 287.2 $ 162.2 $ 43.6 $ 30.4 $ 523.4 surety bonds 71.9 4.1 0.2 76.2 total $ 359.1 $ 166.3 $ 43.8 $ 30.4 $ 599.6 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 65% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 54% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2016 . the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of primarily u.s. equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") fixed income securities , as discussed in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. at december 31, 2016 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $642.3 million from $639.0 million at december 31, 2015 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2016 2015 u.s. large cap 20 % 19 % u.s. small cap 4 % 4 % international large cap 14 % 14 % emerging markets 5 % 5 % world equity 8 % 8 % equity securities 51 % 50 % liability driven investment 39 % 39 % long-term government/credit 10 % 11 % fixed income 49 % 50 % 42 non-u.s. plans asset category 2016 2015 north american companies 7 % 6 % u.k. companies % 8 % european companies % 3 % asian pacific companies % 2 % global equity 8 % 8 % equity securities 15 % 27 % u.k. government gilt index 31 % 27 % u.k. corporate bond index 1 % 19 % global fixed income bond 2 % 18 % liability driven investment 11 % % fixed income 45 % 64 % multi-asset 25 % % buy-in contract 9 % % other 6 % 9 % other types 40 % 9 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $833.5 million and $812.4 million as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2017 is approximately $0.1 million and $9.5 million , respectively. we amortize estimated prior service costs and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $27.3 million and $28.6 million as of december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2017 is $0.1 million . the estimated prior service cost that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2017 is $0.1 million . we amortize any estimated net loss over the remaining expected service period of approximately three years. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2016 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $37.5 million compared with $40.1 million in 2015 and $45.5 million in 2014 . 43 the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2016 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 4.00 % 2.34 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.00 3.22 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2016 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.00 % 4.68 % discount rate 4.75 3.13 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.00 3.61 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.3 ) $ 1.3 effect on benefit obligation (16.8 ) 18.2 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (2.5 ) 2.6 effect on benefit obligation (26.9 ) 30.6 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.1 ) effect on benefit obligation (0.9 ) 0.9 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (2.0 ) $ 2.0 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.1 ) 1.1 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2016 , as compared with december 31, 2015 , we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 4.75% to 4.00% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had lower yields due to current market conditions. the average discount rate for the non-u.s. plans decreased from 3.13% to 2.34% based on analysis of bonds and other publicly-traded instruments, by country, which had lower yields due to market conditions . the average assumed rate of compensation remained relatively constant at approximately 4.00% for the u.s. plan and decreased to 3.22% from 3.61% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2016 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets decreased to 6.00% from 6.25% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 5.03% to 4.68% , primarily based on our target allocations and expected long-term asset returns. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rate. for all u.s. plans, we adopted the rp-2006 mortality tables and the mp-2016 improvement scale published in october 2016. we applied the rp-2006 tables based on the constituency of our plan population for union and non-union participants. we adjusted the improvement scale to utilize 75% of the ultimate improvement rate, consistent with assumptions adopted by the social security administration trustees, based on long-term historical experience. currently, we believe this approach provides the best estimate of our future obligation. most plan participants elect to receive plan benefits as a lump sum at the end of service, rather than an annuity. as such, the updated mortality tables had an immaterial effect on our pension obligation. 44 we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $3.5 million lower in 2017 than the $37.5 million in 2016 , primarily due to the reduction in the amortization of the actuarial net loss. we have used discount rates of 4.00% , 2.34% and 3.75% at december 31, 2016 , in calculating our estimated 2017 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and postretirement medical plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 7.5% for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2025 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $42.5 million , $43.8 million and $43.5 million to our defined benefit plans in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2017 will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $6 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2017 , excluding direct benefits paid. for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent loss; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed at least annually if not quarterly by management. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is typically based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectibility. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. our contracts typically include cancellation provisions that require customers to reimburse us for costs incurred up to the date of cancellation, as well as any contractual cancellation penalties. we enter into certain agreements with multiple deliverables that may include any combination of designing, developing, manufacturing, modifying, installing and commissioning of flow management equipment and providing services related to the performance of such products. delivery of these products and services typically occurs within a one to two -year period, although many arrangements, such as "short-cycle" type orders, have a shorter timeframe for delivery . we separate deliverables into units of accounting based on whether the deliverable(s) have standalone value to the customer (impact of general rights of return is immaterial). contract value is allocated ratably to the units of accounting in the arrangement based on their relative selling prices determined as if the deliverables were sold separately. revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with 45 progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 5% of our consolidated sales as of december 31, 2016 and 7% as of december 31, 2015 and 2014. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years . fixed fee service contracts represent approximately 1% of consolidated sales for each year presented. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis, accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined. in circumstances where the total projected revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of penalties or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and 46 dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the u.k. and the eurozone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in five reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. an impairment loss for goodwill is recognized if the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, 47 business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2016, 2015 or 2014; however the estimated fair value of our engineered product operations ("epo") and ipd reporting units reduced significantly due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressure experienced in the oil and gas markets which are anticipated to continue in the near to mid-term. the epo reporting unit is a component of our epd reporting segment and is primarily focused on long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems. as of december 31, 2016 our epo reporting unit had approximately $156 million of goodwill and its estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 45%. in addition, our ipd reporting unit, which is primarily focused on pre-configured industrial pumps and pump systems had approximately $298 million of goodwill and it fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 70%. key assumptions used in determining the estimated fair value of our epo and ipd reporting units included the annual operating plan and forecasted operating results, successful execution of our current realignment programs and identified strategic initiatives, a constant cost of capital, a short-term stabilization and mid to long-term improvement of the macro-economic conditions of the oil and gas market, and a relatively stable global gross domestic product. a 100 basis point increase in our cost of capital would reduce the estimated fair values of both epo and ipd reporting units by approximately 13%, which coupled with a prolonged down cycle of the oil and gas markets, could potentially put both reporting units' goodwill at risk of a future impairment. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our epo and ipd reporting units as of december 31, 2016, we will continue to closely monitor their performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment and reassess accordingly. we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization increased as compared with 2015 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2016. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of a trademark by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2016 , 2015 or 2014 . the recoverable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the recoverable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing assumptions similar to those for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. 48 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2016 , we had $224.3 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 2.25% . a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $2.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona, russian ruble, malaysian ringgit and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. in march 2015, we designated 255.7 million of our 500.0 million 2022 eur senior notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net losses associated with foreign currency translation of $72.0 million , $173.4 million and $148.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive loss . the net loss in 2016 was primarily driven by the weakening of the british pound, euro and mexican peso versus the u.s. dollar at december 31, 2016 as compared with december 31, 2015 . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and beginning in the fourth quarter of 2013 instruments that meet certain criteria are designated for hedge accounting. as of december 31, 2016 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $393.8 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in foreign exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $397.3 million at december 31, 2015 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of non-designated foreign exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net gains (losses) of $2.8 million , $(37.7) million and $2.8 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, which are included in o ther income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. see discussion of the impact in 2015 of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2016 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2016 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $4 million . this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. hedging related transactions for designated foreign exchange contracts recorded to other comprehensive loss , net of deferred taxes, are summarized in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we expect to recognize losses of $0.1 million , net of deferred taxes, into earnings in the next twelve months related to designated cash flow hedges based on their fair values at december 31, 2016 . 49risk factors 13 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2018 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. through december 31, 2018, we conducted our operations through three segments: engineered product division ("epd"), industrial product division ("ipd") and flow control division ("fcd"). sales to external customers, intersegment sales, operating profit and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment are reported in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report and in the management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our business segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. epd and ipd have a high number of common customers and complementary product offerings and technologies that are often combined in applications that provide us a net competitive advantage. all segments share certain resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("r&amp;d"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. 1 our operations leadership reports to our chief executive officer and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as r&amp;d, marketing and supply chain. we believe this leadership structure positions the company to leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase shareholders' value. in the second quarter of 2018, we launched and committed resources to our flowserve 2.0 transformation ("flowserve 2.0 transformation"), a program designed to transform our business model to drive operational excellence, reduce complexity, accelerate growth, expand margins, increase capital efficiency and improve organizational health . during the latter part of 2018 and in connection with the flowserve 2.0 transformation, we determined that there are meaningful operational synergies and benefits to combining our epd and ipd reportable segments into one reportable segment, the flowserve pump division ("fpd"). the reorganization will be effective as of january 1, 2019 and as a result, beginning in 2019 we will report a two operating segment structure, fpd and fcd, and prior periods will be retrospectively adjusted to reflect the new reportable segment structure. for further discussion of the flowserve 2.0 transformation program refer to note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. strategies our overarching objectives are to be a leader in each of the market segments we serve and become the employer of choice in the flow control industry. additionally, we seek to be recognized by our customers as the most trusted brand in terms of reliability and quality, which we believe will help maximize shareholder value. in pursuit of these objectives, we maintain a rolling, five-year strategic plan that takes a balanced approach to integrating both short-term and long-term initiatives in four key areas: people, process &amp; technology, customer and finance. people with the goal of developing and maintaining a people-first culture that produces the finest talent, we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: (i) fully committing to providing a safe work environment for all our associates, worldwide, (ii) upholding a high-performance workforce, that is empowered, accountable, and flexible, (iii) becoming the employer of choice by fostering a people-first culture and (iv) recruiting, developing, and retaining a global and diverse workforce. process and technology with the goal of improving our productivity and delivering a continuous stream of innovating solutions to our customers, we focus on select strategies relating to: (i) developing and maintaining an enterprise-first business approach across all operating units and functional organizations, (ii) simplifying our business processes and optimizing corporate structural costs, (iii) significantly reducing our product cost and rationalizing our product portfolio and (iv) becoming the technical leader in the flow control industry. customer with the goal of achieving the highest level of customer satisfaction amongst our peers, we focus on select strategies related to rigorous and disciplined selection of target markets and customers, while maintaining competitive lead times and emphasizing the highest levels of on-time delivery and quality. we seek to provide an outstanding experience for our customers over the entire product lifecycle by providing unique, integrated flow-control solutions that solve real-world application problems in our customers' facilities. finance with the goal of growing the value of our enterprise, we focus on select strategies we believe will increase our revenue above the rate of market growth, while optimizing performance in terms of gross margin, selling, general and administrative ("sg&amp;a") expense, operating margin, cash flow and primary working capital. flowserve 2.0 transformation the goals of the flowserve 2.0 transformation are to (i) accelerate revenue growth, (ii) drive margin expansion, (iii) increase capital efficiency and (iv) improve organizational health. the flowserve 2.0 transformation consists of over a hundred of individual projects spread over six work-streams (operations, commercial, growth, aftermarket, cost structure and working capital). a majority of these projects are primarily focused on accelerating revenue growth, while the balance are 2 primarily focused on cost reduction and capital efficiency. the projects include elements of organizational design, business process definition, process automation and metrics. individual projects vary in terms of time to execute, ranging from one year for simple quick-fix efforts to five years for more complex infrastructure efforts. a structured process has been created to ensure that each project follows common milestones and delivers value over its lifecycle, with a governance process that oversees the portfolio to ensure that time-phased trade-offs between cost and benefits are proactively managed. the project portfolio is actively covered by a dedicated transformation office to ensure that projects are managed from inception to execution to protect the long-term value of the transformation. competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, project management, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the current forecasts for 2019 , pricing for original equipment orders may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in each of our three business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies. in the oil and gas and chemical industries, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, as well as our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital and operating expenditure cycles. 3 customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. we do not have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2018 revenues. customer information relating to each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 10 to 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. metal castings used in the manufacture of our pump, valve, and mechanical seals are purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. we remain vertically integrated with metal castings in certain strategic product families. concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. employees and labor relations we have approximately 17,000 employees globally as of december 31, 2018 . in the united states ("u.s."), a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our pattern storage facility located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, finland, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, south africa, spain, sweden and the united kingdom ("u.k."). we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, 4 including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2018 revenues. environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at five superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these five sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $234.3 million in 2018 , $258.3 million in 2017 and $259.1 million in 2016 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 17 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . engineered product division our largest business segment is epd, through which we design, manufacture, distribute and service specialty, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and upgrades and related aftermarket services. epd includes longer lead time, highly-engineered specialty pump products and systems and mechanical seals that are generally manufactured within shorter lead times. epd also manufactures replacement pumps and upgrades and provides a full array of replacement parts, repair and support services (collectively referred to as "aftermarket"). epd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical, power generation, water management and other general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and our regional qrcs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to other original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into their rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our engineered pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to reliably meet the operating requirements of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft 5 wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured at 28 plants worldwide, eight of which are located in europe, nine in north america, six in asia pacific and five in latin america, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities and/or shared with ipd. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have five unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in china, india, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support best-cost sourcing initiatives and balance capacity demands for other markets. epd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our epd product types and globally recognized brands: epd product types single and multistage between bearings pumps single stage overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems rotary multiphase dry-running seals rotary screw gas barrier seals standard cartridge seals vertical pumps mixer seals vertical inline compressor seals vertical line shaft seal support systems vertical canned shaft bearing isolators barrier fluids and lubricants specialty products nuclear pumps power recovery dweer nuclear seals power recovery hydro turbine cryogenic pumps energy recovery devices concrete volute pumps hydraulic decoking systems wireless transmitters api slurry pumps ebullator recycle pumps 6 epd brand names bw seals niigata worthington calder energy recovery devices qrc durametallic pacific five star seal pacific weitz flowserve pac-seal gaspac readyseal idp united centrifugal interseal western land roller lawrence wilson-snyder lifecycle advantage worthington worthington-simpson epd services we provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 119 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 47 countries. our epd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning, repair, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of epd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. epd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow and power) and under more extreme conditions (i.e., erosive, corrosive and temperature) beyond the level of traditional technology. we continue to develop innovations that improve our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically upstream, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements that significantly improve energy efficiency, reduce total cost-of-ownership and enhance safety. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we continue to develop new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the coal fired, combined cycle, small modular nuclear and concentrated solar power generation plant. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements that improve performance, reduce acquisition costs, extend operating life between required maintenance periods and reduce the lead times in which we can deliver our products. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. additionally, we are incentivizing our operations and tracking the r&amp;d projects more closely, which is leading to broader engagement in developing new products. in 2018 , epd continued to advance our intelligent performance solutions ("ips") insight platform. this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our remote monitoring, diagnostics, asset management and service capabilities for our end-user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. additionally, we have been exploring additive manufacturing opportunities in our products and auxiliary systems. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material to our business. 7 epd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, major national oil companies, international oil companies, equipment end users in our served markets, other original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical, power generation, water management and other general industries. epd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with thousands of competitors globally. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. there are also a number of smaller, newer entrants in some of our emerging markets. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, application knowledge, experience, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx flow, inc.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; weir group plc.; itt industries; and ksb se &amp; co. kgaa. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our high technology, our more than 225 years of experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request. epd backlog epd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2018 was $922.6 million (including $15.3 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $1,027.7 million (including $16.0 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2017 . the impact of the initial adoption of the new revenue standard reduced backlog by approximately $181 million at january 1, 2018. we expect to ship approximately 92% of december 31, 2018 backlog during 2019 . industrial product division through ipd we design, manufacture, pre-test, distribute and service engineered and pre-configured industrial pumps and pump systems, for variety of markets. our globalized operating platform, low-cost sourcing and continuous improvement initiatives are essential aspects of this business. ipd's standardized, general purpose pump products are primarily utilized by the chemical, oil and gas, water resources, power and general industrial (i.e. mining, steel and paper) industries. our products are currently manufactured in 16 manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s and six in europe and four in asia . ipd operates 29 qrcs worldwide, including 18 sites in europe, five in the u.s., three in asia pacific and two in latin america, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities and/or shared with epd. ipd products we manufacture approximately 40 different active types of pumps, which are available in a wide range of metal alloys and non-metallics with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. the following is a summary list of our ipd products and globally recognized brands: 8 ipd pump product types overhung between bearings chemical process asme and iso side channel multistage industrial process segmental channel multistage slurry and solids handling split case axially split metallic &amp; lined magnetic drive process split case radially split specialty products vertical ag chem wet pit, double case api &amp; double molten salt pump deepwell submersible pump submersible pump slurry and solids handling geothermal deepwell sump &amp; cantilever barge pump solids handling submersible vacuum systems liquid ring positive displacement lr systems gear dry systems ipd brand names byron jackson pacific durco scienco flowserve sier bath halberg sihi idp tkl innomag western land roller labour worthington meregalli worthington-simpson ipd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force, regional service and repair centers through independent distributors and sales representatives. we provide an array of aftermarket services including product installation and commissioning services, seal systems spare parts, repairs, re-rate and upgrade solutions, advanced diagnostics and maintenance solutions through our global network of qrcs. ipd new product development our ipd development projects target product feature enhancements, design improvements and sourcing opportunities that we believe will improve the competitive position of our industrial pump product lines. we will invest in our durco and sihi chemical product platform to expand and enhance our products offered to the global chemical industry. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. we continue to further our energy efficiency initiatives in response to various global governmental directives. cost reduction projects incorporating product rationalization, value engineering, lean manufacturing and overhead reduction continue to be key drivers for ipd. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. 9 ipd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including chemical, oil and gas, water resources, power and general industry industries. ipd competition the industrial pump industry is highly fragmented, with many competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include itt industries, ksb se &amp; co. kgaa and sulzer pumps. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the chemical industry, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment and our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions. ipd backlog ipd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2018 was $394.0 million (including $17.2 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $424.3 million (including $17.3 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2017 . the impact of the initial adoption of the new revenue standard reduced backlog by approximately $34 million at january 1, 2018. we expect to ship approximately 85% of december 31, 2018 backlog during 2019 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of engineered and industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized and engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 21 principal manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s., 10 located in europe and five located in asia pacific. fcd operates 26 qrcs worldwide, including six sites in europe, nine in north america, nine in asia pacific and two in latin america, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities. fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represents one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. 10 our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. the following is a summary list of our valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems electro pneumatic positioners control valves digital positioners ball valves pneumatic positioners gate valves intelligent positioners globe valves electric/electronic actuators check valves pneumatic actuators butterfly valves hydraulic actuators lined plug valves diaphragm actuators lined ball valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lubricated plug valves limit switches non-lubricated plug valves digital communications integrated valve controllers valve and automation repair services diagnostic software fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling noble alloy argus norbro atomac nordstrom automax pmv durco serck audco edward schmidt armaturen flowserve valbart kammer valtek limitorque worcester controls mccanna/marpac fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. 11 fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top-works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion and fundamental research in material sciences in order to increase the temperature, pressure and corrosion/erosion-resistance limits of existing products, as well as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of epd and ipd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from epc firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include cameron international corp. (a schlumberger company), emerson electric co., general electric co., rotork plc and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 15% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that we are the third largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our ability to provide complementary pump and aftermarket products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2018 was $608.4 million , compared with $617.4 million as of december 31, 2017 . the impact of the initial adoption of the new revenue standard reduced backlog by approximately $35 million at january 1, 2018. we expect to ship approximately 88% of december 31, 2018 backlog during 2019 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). reports, proxy statements and other information filed or furnished with the sec are also available at www.sec.gov. also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. 12 item 1a. risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. while we believe all known material risks are disclosed, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing, specifically the price of oil, can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their industries or markets. despite these favorable conditions, the general health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets may impact investments in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact capital investment decisions and their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market conditions and global economic growth forecasts could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 we may be unable to deliver our backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2018 , backlog was $1.9 billion . in 2019 , our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. our manufacturing plant operations and capacity may be disrupted as a result of equipment failure, natural disaster, power outage, fire, explosion, terrorism, cyber-based attack, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes, acts of god, or other reasons. we may also encounter capacity limitations due to changes in demand despite our forecasting efforts. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to late delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with contract terms and customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships, could increase our costs, could reduce our sales and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are not able to successfully execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our transformation and strategic realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. in the second quarter of 2018, we launched and committed resources to our flowserve 2.0 transformation ("flowserve 2.0 transformation"), a program designed to transform our business model to drive operational excellence, reduce complexity, accelerate growth, improve organizational health and better leverage our existing global platform. while we expect significant financial benefits from our flowserve 2.0 transformation, we may not realize the full benefits that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. adverse effects from our execution of transformation and realignment activities could interfere with our realization of anticipated synergies, customer service improvements and cost savings from these strategic initiatives. additionally, our ability to fully realize the benefits and implement the transformation and realignment programs may be limited by the terms of our credit facilities and other contractual commitments. moreover, because such expenses are difficult to predict and are necessarily inexact, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the execution of our transformation and realignment plans in excess of what is currently forecast. further, transformation and realignment activities are a complex and time-consuming process that can place substantial demands on management, which could divert attention from other business priorities or disrupt our daily operations. any of these failures could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could constrain our liquidity. if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected, and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our transformation and realignment efforts prove ineffective. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end-user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow-growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their supply chain. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, technology, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. in addition, negative publicity or other organized campaigns critical of us, through social media or otherwise, could negatively affect our reputation. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, which could limit our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 14 the success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring these products and services to market. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our continuous improvement process initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india and latin america. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe, and political conditions in russia, the middle east, asia, north africa, latin america and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; political, financial market or economic instability relating to the brexit referendum in the united kingdom; uncertainties related to any geopolitical, economic and regulatory effects or changes due to recent domestic and international elections; the imposition of governmental economic sanctions on countries in which we do business, including russia and venezuela; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; increased aging and slower collection of receivables, particularly in latin america and other emerging markets; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the 15 supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in russia, the middle east, asia and north africa could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including challenges to our ability to protect our intellectual property, pressure on the pricing of our products and increased risk of political instability, and may prefer local suppliers because of existing relationships or local restrictions or incentives. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations may be impacted by the united kingdom's proposed exit from the european union. the united kingdom's june 2016 referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ) and subsequent negotiations related to the referendum has caused and may continue to cause volatility in the global stock markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic uncertainty, which could adversely affect our customers' ability to invest in capital expenditures, which may in turn reduce demand for our products and services. in addition, there may be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the u.k. and other e.u. countries and additional regulatory complexities. the uncertainties related to the brexit referendum and its impact on the global economic climate could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations, both internationally and domestically. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. there is uncertainty related to the current u.s. administration's support or plans for new or existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries, such as the january 2017 u.s. withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership, which may affect restrictions or tariffs imposed on products we buy or sell. these factors, together with other key global events during 2018 (such as the continuing uncertainty arising from the brexit transition, as well as ongoing terrorist activity), may adversely impact the ability or willingness of non-u.s. companies to transact business in the u.s. this uncertainty may also affect regulations and trade agreements affecting u.s. companies, global stock markets (including the nyse, on which our common shares are traded), currency exchange rates, and general global economic conditions. all of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. in addition, in december 2017 the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax reform act ) was passed in the united states, which significantly changed u.s. tax law and affected, among other items, the company's u.s. federal income tax rate. the impacts from the tax reform act may differ, possibly materially, from the tax estimates we have recorded due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes from interpretations enacted and assumptions the company has made, and additional regulatory guidance that may be issued. as a result, this (and other) tax legislation could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. implementation of new tariffs and changes to or uncertainties related to tariffs and trade agreements could adversely affect our business. the u.s. has recently announced the implementation of certain new tariffs on steel and aluminum imported into the country, and is reportedly also considering additional tariffs. in response, certain foreign governments have implemented or 16 are reportedly considering implementing additional tariffs on u.s. goods. in addition, there have been recent changes to trade agreements, like the u.s. withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership and the replacement of the north american free trade agreement with the united states-mexico-canada agreement. uncertainties with respect to tariffs, trade agreements, or any potential trade wars could negatively impact the global economic markets and could affect our customers' ability to invest in capital expenditures, which may in turn result in reduced demand for our products and services, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in tariffs could also result in changes in supply and demand of our raw material needs and could affect our manufacturing capabilities and could lead to increased prices that we may not be able to effectively pass on to customers, each of which could materially adversely affect our operating margins, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar and argentine peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, such as the uk bribery act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. because we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree, our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide. if we are found to be in violation of the fcpa or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, such as the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing instability in syria and egypt, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. regulatory and customer focus on environmental, social and governance responsibility could expose us to additional costs or risks. regulators, shareholders, customers and other interested parties have focused increasingly on the environmental, social and governance practices of companies. this has led to an increase in regulations and may continue to cause us to be subject to additional regulations in the future. our customers or other interested parties may also require us to implement certain environmental, social or governance procedures or standards before doing or continuing to do business with us. this increased 17 attention on environmental, social and governance practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at five superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress, state and foreign legislatures and federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and/or the paris climate agreement and these and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly those involved in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical processing or petroleum refining industries, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, new laws and regulations that might favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels, including nuclear, wind, solar and bio-fuels or that are designed to increase energy efficiency, could dampen demand for oil and gas production or power generation resulting in lower spending by customers for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that coverage or payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately 17,000 employees, of which approximately 5,000 were located in the u.s. approximately 5% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, finland, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, south africa, spain, sweden and the u.k. no individual unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new and acceptable agreements when the existing agreements with employees covered by collective bargaining expire, we could experience business disruptions or increased costs. our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract, train, develop and retain a skilled workforce. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to effectively replace the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce as workers retire. without a properly skilled and experienced workforce, our costs, including productivity costs and costs to replace employees may increase, and this could negatively impact our earnings. in addition, our policies prohibit harassment or discrimination in the workplace. notwithstanding our conducting training and taking disciplinary action or other actions against or in response to alleged violations, we may encounter additional costs from claims made and/or legal proceedings brought against us, and we could suffer reputational harm. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for officers and employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., belgium, canada, india, mexico, the netherlands, switzerland and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany, italy, japan and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. this impact may be particularly prevalent where we maintain significant concentrations of specified investments, such as the u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. 19 we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. regulations have increased the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans in prior years, which has at times required significant contributions to our pension plans. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. some of our products are designed to support the most critical, severe service applications in the markets that we serve and any failure of such products could result in significant product liability and warranty claims, as well as damage to our reputation in the marketplace. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $116 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. in addition, tax law changes could negatively impact our deferred tax assets. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, we may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance our existing indebtedness. our current senior credit facility matures on october 14, 2020 and our senior notes are due in 2022 and 2023, respectively. for additional information regarding our current indebtedness refer to note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. if we are unable to timely access capital on satisfactory terms, including as a result of market disruptions, we may not be able to expand our business as desired, and may be limited in our ability to refinance our indebtedness. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; fully utilize the capacity under the senior credit facility; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. we are also required to maintain certain debt ratings, comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. goodwill impairment could negatively impact our net income and stockholders' equity. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. reductions in or impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. there are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. these risks include, but are not limited to, lowered expectations of future financial results, adverse changes in the business climate, increase in the discount rate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, the loss of key personnel, a more-likely-than-not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, a sustained decline in the company's market capitalization, and significant, prolonged negative variances between actual and expected financial results. in recent years, the estimated fair value of epo and ipd have fluctuated, partially due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressures experienced in the oil and gas markets. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our epo and ipd reporting units as of december 31, 2018 , we will continue to monitor their performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment. for additional information, see the discussion in item 7 of this annual report and under note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our information technology infrastructure could be subject to service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, which could disrupt our business operations and result in the loss of critical and confidential information. our information technology networks and related systems and devices are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. these information technology networks and related systems and devices may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading 21 or replacing software, databases or components or suffer from power outages, hardware failures or computer viruses. if these information technology systems and related systems and devices suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. in addition, cybersecurity breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, misuse, or interruption of sensitive and critical information and functions, including our proprietary information and information related to our customers, suppliers and employees. it is also possible a security breach could result in theft of trade secret or other intellectual property. while we devote substantial resources to maintaining adequate levels of cybersecurity, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all of the rapidly evolving forms of increasingly sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, regulatory actions, theft of intellectual property, disruption of manufacturing plant operations and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. if we are unable to prevent, detect or adequately respond to security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be materially and adversely affected. recent legal developments in europe could result in changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or otherwise harm our business. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders and must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the u.s. and elsewhere. for example, the e.u. recently adopted the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ). the gdpr imposes additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal data and provides certain individual privacy rights to persons whose data is stored. compliance with existing, proposed and recently enacted laws and regulations can be costly; any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks, including proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. ineffective internal controls could impact the accuracy and timely reporting of our business and financial results. our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and financial results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. for example, during its evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 management concluded that a deficiency in our internal controls related to the control environment primarily related to the operation of certain inventory controls or recording of unsupported manual journal entries at one of the non-u.s. sites and the design and maintenance of effective business performance reviews represented material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, therefore, that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 . management actively engaged in the planning and implementation of remediation efforts to address these material weaknesses and to strengthen the overall internal control related to the control environment at the one non-u.s. site and the business review controls and believes that such remediation efforts have effectively remediated the material weaknesses. changes in accounting principles and guidance could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. a change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and financial results. the adoption of new or revised accounting principles may require us to make changes to our systems, processes and internal controls, which could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and internal controls, cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, retroactively affect previously reported results or require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems upon our following the adoption of these standards. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements may include, among others, statements about our goals and strategies, new product introductions, plans to cultivate new businesses, future economic conditions, revenue, pricing, gross profit margin and costs, capital spending, 22 expected cost savings from our realignment programs, depreciation and amortization, research and development expenses, potential impairment of assets, tax rate and pending tax and legal proceedings. in some cases forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts," "seeks" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations and have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2019 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we will seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2019 , our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives, information technology infrastructure, general upgrades and cost reduction opportunities and we currently estimate capital expenditures to be between $90 million and $100 million , before consideration of any acquisition activity. we have $60.0 million in scheduled principal repayments in 2019 under our term loan facility, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our senior credit facility in 2019 . see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid, in 2019 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $9 million in 2019 , excluding direct benefits paid. 45 contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2018 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) term loan facility and senior notes: $ 60.0 $ 44.8 $ 1,364.8 $ $ 1,469.6 fixed interest payments(1) 36.6 73.3 36.4 146.3 variable interest payments(2) 3.5 0.9 4.4 other debt and capital lease obligations 8.2 5.3 13.5 operating leases 68.4 88.3 50.0 66.5 273.2 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 411.1 3.4 0.2 414.7 non-inventory 39.2 0.1 0.3 39.6 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 59.5 123.3 122.7 295.9 601.4 total $ 686.5 $ 339.4 $ 1,574.2 $ 362.6 $ 2,962.7 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent interest payments on the senior notes and term loan facility as defined in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. (2) variable interest payments under our term loan facility were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2018 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2018 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $41.2 million . we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2018 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 315.5 $ 136.8 $ 13.2 $ 26.4 $ 491.9 surety bonds 94.6 1.0 8.9 104.5 total $ 410.1 $ 137.8 $ 22.1 $ 26.4 $ 596.4 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 65% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 53% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2018 . unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. 46 our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") fixed income securities , as discussed in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. at december 31, 2018 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans decreased to $658.0 million from $713.5 million at december 31, 2017 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2018 2017 cash and cash equivalents 1 % 1 % global equity 30 % 36 % global real assets 13 % 12 % equity securities 43 % 48 % diversified credit 13 % 12 % liability-driven investment 43 % 39 % fixed income 56 % 51 % non-u.s. plans asset category 2018 2017 cash and cash equivalents 7 % 3 % north american companies 3 % 3 % global equity 2 % 3 % equity securities 5 % 6 % u.k. government gilt index 43 % 41 % u.k. corporate bond index % 1 % global fixed income bond 2 % 2 % liability-driven investment 9 % 9 % fixed income 54 % 53 % multi-asset 19 % 22 % buy-in contract 10 % 10 % other 5 % 6 % other types 34 % 38 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $809.2 million and $875.3 million as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2019 is approximately $0.4 million and $6.4 million , respectively. we amortize any estimated net gains or losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants . we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $18.8 million and $23.9 million as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the estimated actuarial net gain for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2019 is $0.2 million . the estimated prior service cost that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2019 is $0.1 million . we amortize any estimated net gain or loss over the remaining average life expectancy of approximately 11 years . 47 accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2018 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $28.2 million compared with $35.2 million in 2017 and $37.5 million in 2016 . the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2018 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 4.34 % 2.42 % rate of increase in compensation levels 3.50 3.28 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2018 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.00 % 3.62 % discount rate 3.63 2.25 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.01 3.25 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.4 ) $ 1.4 effect on benefit obligation (16.2 ) 17.5 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.0 ) 0.9 effect on benefit obligation (26.7 ) 30.2 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.1 ) 0.1 effect on benefit obligation (0.5 ) 0.6 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (2.1 ) $ 2.1 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.2 ) 1.2 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants . 48 at december 31, 2018 , as compared with december 31, 2017 , we increased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 3.63% to 4.34% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had higher yields due to current market conditions. the average discount rate for the non-u.s. plans increased from 2.25% to 2.42% based on analysis of bonds and other publicly-traded instruments, by country, which had higher yields due to market conditions . the average assumed rate of compensation decreased from 4.01% to 3.50% for the u.s. plan and increased to 3.28% from 3.25% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2018 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets remained constant at 6.00% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 3.88% to 3.62% , primarily based on our target allocations and expected long-term asset returns. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rate. for all u.s. plans, we adopted the rp-2006 mortality tables and the mp-2018 improvement scale published in october 2018. we applied the rp-2006 tables based on the constituency of our plan population for union and non-union participants. we adjusted the improvement scale to utilize 75% of the ultimate improvement rate, consistent with assumptions adopted by the social security administration trustees, based on long-term historical experience. currently, we believe this approach provides the best estimate of our future obligation. most plan participants elect to receive plan benefits as a lump sum at the end of service, rather than an annuity. as such, the updated mortality tables had an immaterial effect on our pension obligation. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $0.6 million higher in 2019 than the $28.2 million in 2018 , primarily due to a decrease in the amortization of actuarial gains and losses and no anticipated special events. we have used discount rates of 4.34% , 2.42% and 4.20% at december 31, 2018 , in calculating our estimated 2019 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and postretirement medical plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 7.0% for 2018 , 7.0% for 2017 and 7.5% for 2016 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2029 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $48.1 million , $44.9 million and $46.8 million to our defined benefit plans in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2019 will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $9 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2019 , excluding direct benefits paid. for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent loss; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed at least annually if not quarterly by management. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. 49 revenue recognition effective january 1, 2018, we adopted asu no. 2014-09, "revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606)" and all related asus ("new revenue standard"), using the modified retrospective method for transition. for a discussion related to our adoption of the new revenue standard requirements refer to note 1 included in item 8 of this annual report. we recognize revenue either over time or at a point in time, depending on the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer and the nature of the products or services to be provided. our primary method for recognizing revenue over time is the percentage of completion ( poc ) method, whereby progress towards completion is measured by applying an input measure based on costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion. if control of the products and/or services does not transfer over time, then control transfers at a point in time. we determine the point in time that control transfers to a customer based on the evaluation of specific indicators, such as title transfer, risk of loss transfer, customer acceptance and physical possession. for a discussion related to revenue recognition refer to note 2 included in item 8 of this annual report. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is reasonably estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and 50 dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the u.k. and the eurozone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in four reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. an impairment loss for goodwill is recognized if the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, 51 business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2018, 2017 or 2016; however, the estimated fair value of our epo and ipd reporting units reduced significantly in 2016 and 2015 due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressure experienced in the oil and gas markets which are anticipated to continue in the near to mid-term. the epo reporting unit is a component of our epd reporting segment and is primarily focused on long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pump products and systems. as of december 31, 2018, our epo reporting unit had approximately $158 million of goodwill and its estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 60% as compared to approximately $159 million of goodwill and its estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 82% as of december 31, 2017. in addition, our ipd reporting unit had approximately $311 million of goodwill and its fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 40% as of december 31, 2018 as compared to approximately $319 million of goodwill and its fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 66% as of december 31, 2017. key assumptions used in determining the estimated fair value of our epo and ipd reporting units included the annual operating plan and forecasted operating results, successful execution of our current flowserve transformation 2.0 program and identified strategic initiatives, a constant cost of capital, continued stabilization and mid to long-term improvement of the macro-economic conditions of the oil and gas market, and a relatively stable global gross domestic product. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our epo and ipd reporting units as of december 31, 2018, we will continue to closely monitor their performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment and reassess accordingly. we considered our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization decreased slightly as compared with 2017 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2018. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of a trademark by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2018 , 2017 or 2016 . the recoverable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the recoverable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing assumptions similar to those for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. 52 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2018 , we had $104.8 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 4.30% . a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $1.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 . at december 31, 2017, we had $164.4 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 3.19%. a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $1.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona, russian ruble, malaysian ringgit and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. in march 2015, we designated 255.7 million of our 500.0 million 2022 eur senior notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net (losses) gains associated with foreign currency translation of $(63.1) million , $98.8 million and $(72.0) million for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive loss . the net loss in 2018 was primarily driven by the weakening of the euro, argentinian peso, indian rupee and british pound versus the u.s. dollar at december 31, 2018 as compared with december 31, 2017 . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures. as of december 31, 2018 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $280.9 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in foreign exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $235.6 million at december 31, 2017 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of foreign exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net (losses) gains of $(18.7) million , $(14.0) million and $2.8 million for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively, which are included in other expense, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2018 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2018 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $3 million . at december 31, 2017, a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2017 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $7 million. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. 53risk factors 11 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2019 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. during the first quarter of 2019, we determined that there were meaningful operational synergies and benefits to combining our previously reported engineered product division ("epd") and industrial product division ("ipd") segments into one reportable segment, flowserve pump division ("fpd"). as a result, we implemented a reorganization of our operating segments and report our financial information reflecting two segments: fpd and flow control division ("fcd"). the reorganization of the segments reflects how our chief operating decision maker (chief executive officer) regularly reviews financial information to allocate resources and assess performance. prior periods' financial information was retrospectively adjusted to reflect the new reportable segment structure. sales to external customers, intersegment sales, operating profit and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment are reported in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report and in the management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. all segments share certain 1 resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("r&amp;d"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. our operations leadership reports to our chief executive officer and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as r&amp;d, marketing and supply chain. we believe this leadership structure positions the company to leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase in shareholder value. in 2018 we launched and committed resources to our flowserve 2.0 transformation ("flowserve 2.0 transformation"), a program designed to transform our business model to drive operational excellence, reduce complexity, accelerate growth, expand margins, increase capital efficiency and improve organizational health . for further discussion of the flowserve 2.0 transformation program refer to note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. strategies our overarching objectives are to be a leader in each of the market segments we serve and become the employer of choice in the flow control industry. additionally, we seek to be recognized by our customers as the most trusted brand of flow control technology in terms of reliability and quality, which we believe will help maximize shareholder value. in pursuit of these objectives, we maintain a rolling, five-year strategic plan that takes a balanced approach to integrating both short-term and long-term initiatives in four key areas: people, process &amp; technology, customer and finance. people with the goal of developing and maintaining a people-first culture that produces the finest talent, we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: (i) fully committing to providing a safe work environment for all our associates, worldwide, (ii) upholding a high-performance workforce, that is empowered, accountable and flexible, (iii) becoming the employer of choice by fostering a people-first culture and (iv) recruiting, developing and retaining a global and diverse workforce. process and technology with the goal of improving our productivity and delivering a continuous stream of innovative solutions to our customers, we focus on select strategies relating to: (i) developing and maintaining an enterprise-first business approach across all operating units and functional organizations, (ii) simplifying our business processes and optimizing corporate structural costs, (iii) significantly reducing our product cost and rationalizing our product portfolio and (iv) becoming the technical leader in the flow control industry. customer with the goal of achieving the highest level of customer satisfaction amongst our peers, we focus on select strategies related to rigorous and disciplined selection of target markets and customers, while maintaining competitive lead times and emphasizing the highest levels of on-time delivery and quality. we seek to provide an outstanding experience for our customers over the entire product lifecycle by providing unique, integrated flow-control solutions that solve real-world application problems in our customers' facilities. finance with the goal of growing the value of our enterprise, we focus on select strategies we believe will increase our revenue above the rate of market growth, while optimizing performance in terms of gross margin, selling, general and administrative ("sg&amp;a") expense, operating margin, cash flow and primary working capital. flowserve 2.0 transformation the goals of the flowserve 2.0 transformation are to (i) accelerate revenue growth, (ii) drive margin expansion, (iii) increase capital efficiency and (iv) improve organizational health. the flowserve 2.0 transformation consists of over a hundred individual projects spread over six work-streams (operations, commercial, growth, aftermarket, cost structure and working capital). a majority of these projects are primarily focused on accelerating revenue growth, while the balance are primarily focused on cost reduction and capital efficiency. the projects include elements of organizational design, business process definition, process automation and metrics. individual projects vary in terms of time to execute, ranging from one year for simple quick-fix efforts to five years for more complex infrastructure efforts. a structured process has been created 2 to ensure that each project follows common milestones and delivers value over its lifecycle, with a governance process that oversees the portfolio to ensure that time-phased trade-offs between cost and benefits are proactively managed. the project portfolio is actively covered by a dedicated transformation office to ensure that projects are managed from inception to execution to protect the long-term value of the transformation. competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, project management, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the current forecasts for 2020 , pricing for original equipment orders may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in our business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies. in the oil and gas and chemical industries, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, as well as our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital and operating expenditure cycles. customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. we do not have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2019 revenues. customer information relating to each of our business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. 3 we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 10 to 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. metal castings used in the manufacture of our pump, valve, and mechanical seals are purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. we remain vertically integrated with metal castings in certain strategic product families. concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. employees and labor relations we have approximately 17,000 employees globally as of december 31, 2019 . in the united states ("u.s."), a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our pattern storage facility located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, finland, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, south africa, spain, sweden and the united kingdom ("u.k."). we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2019 revenues. environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically 4 make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at five superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these five sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $300.9 million in 2019 , $234.3 million in 2018 and $258.3 million in 2017 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 18 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . flowserve pump division our largest business segment is fpd, through which we design, manufacture, pre-test, distribute and service specialty and highly-engineered custom and pre-configured pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts and upgrades and related aftermarket services. fpd also manufactures replacement pumps and upgrades and provides a full array of replacement parts, repair and support services (collectively referred to as "aftermarket"). fpd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and our regional qrcs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to other original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into their rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to reliably meet the operating requirements of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured in 39 manufacturing facilities worldwide, 13 of which are located in europe, 12 in north america, eight in asia pacific and six in latin america, and we have 144 qrcs, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities and/or shared with fcd. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in chile, china, india, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are 5 manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support best-cost sourcing initiatives and balance capacity demands for other markets. fpd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our fpd product types and globally recognized brands: fpd product types single and multistage between bearings pumps single stage overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case overhung pumps between bearings pumps chemical process asme and iso single case radially split industrial process side channel multistage slurry and solids handling split case axially split metallic &amp; lined magnetic drive process split case radially split positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems rotary multiphase dry-running seals rotary screw barrier fluids and lubricants bearing isolators vertical pumps compressor seals deepwell submersible gas barrier seals slurry and solids handling mixer seals sump &amp; cantilever standard cartridge seals vertical inline seal support systems vertical line shaft vertical canned shaft vacuum systems wet pit, double case api &amp; double liquid ring lr systems positive displacement pumps dry systems gear specialty products ag chem submersible pumps barge pumps solids handling submersible cryogenic pumps wireless transmitters concrete volute pumps power recovery dweer ebullator recycle pumps power recovery hydro turbine geothermal deepwell pumps energy recovery devices molten salt pumps hydraulic decoking systems nuclear pumps api slurry pumps nuclear seals 6 fpd brand names bw seals meregalli byron jackson niigata worthington calder energy recovery devices qrc durametallic pacific durco pacific weitz five star seal pac-seal flowserve readyseal gaspac scienco halberg sihi idp tkl innomag united centrifugal interseal western land roller lawrence worthington lifecycle advantage worthington-simpson labour fpd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force, regional service and repair centers, independent distributors and sales representatives. we also provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 144 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 44 countries. our fpd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning services, seal systems spare parts, repairs, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and upgrade solutions and retrofit programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of fpd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. fpd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow and power) and under more extreme conditions (i.e., erosive, corrosive and temperature) beyond the level of traditional technology. we will invest in our product platform to expand and enhance our products offered to the global chemical industry. we continue to develop innovations that improve our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically upstream, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements that significantly improve energy efficiency, reduce total cost-of-ownership and enhance safety. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we continue to develop new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the coal fired, combined cycle, small modular nuclear and concentrated solar power generation plant. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements that improve performance, reduce costs, extend operating life between required maintenance periods and reduce the lead times in which we can deliver our products. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. additionally, we are incentivizing our operations and tracking the r&amp;d projects more closely, which is leading to broader engagement in developing new products. we continue to advance our intelligent performance solutions ("ips") insight platform. this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our remote monitoring, diagnostics, asset management and service capabilities for our end-user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. additionally, we have been exploring additive manufacturing opportunities in our products and auxiliary systems. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material to our business. 7 fpd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, major national oil companies, international oil companies, equipment end users in our served markets, other original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. fpd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with thousands of competitors globally. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. there are also a number of smaller, newer entrants in some of our emerging markets. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, application knowledge, experience, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx flow, inc.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; weir group plc.; itt industries; and ksb se &amp; co. kgaa. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our high technology, our more than 225 years of experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request. fpd backlog fpd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2019 was $1,560.9 million , compared with $1,286.2 million as of december 31, 2018 . we expect to recognize revenue on approximately 88% of december 31, 2019 backlog during 2020 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of engineered and industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized or engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 21 principal manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s., 10 located in europe, five located in asia pacific and one located in latin america. fcd operates 28 qrcs worldwide, including seven sites in europe, nine in north america, 10 in asia pacific and two in latin america, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities. fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represent one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control 8 efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. the following is a summary list of our valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems electro pneumatic positioners control valves digital positioners ball valves pneumatic positioners gate valves intelligent positioners globe valves electric/electronic actuators check valves pneumatic actuators butterfly valves hydraulic actuators lined plug valves diaphragm actuators lined ball valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lubricated plug valves limit switches non-lubricated plug valves digital communications integrated valve controllers valve and automation repair services diagnostic software fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling noble alloy argus norbro atomac nordstrom automax pmv durco serck audco edward schmidt armaturen flowserve valbart kammer valtek limitorque worcester controls mccanna/marpac fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. 9 fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top-works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion in the areas of higher tier offering and severe service applications such as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of fpd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from epc firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include emerson electric co., cameron international corp. (a schlumberger company), baker hughes, rotork plc and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 15% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that fcd is the second largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our ability to provide complementary pump and aftermarket products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2019 was $600.1 million , compared with $608.4 million as of december 31, 2018 . we expect to recognize revenue on approximately 90% of december 31, 2019 backlog during 2020 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). reports, proxy statements and other information filed or furnished with the sec are also available at www.sec.gov. also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance and risk, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. 10 item 1a. risk factors when the factors, events, and contingencies discussed below or elsewhere in this annual report materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, reputation or prospects could be materially adversely affected. while we believe all known material risks are disclosed, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, reputation or prospects. because of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report and in other filings we make with the sec, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report. our business depends on our customers' levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including changes in the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand and the liquidity cyclicality and condition of global credit and capital markets, any of which could impact the ability or willingness of our customers to invest in our products and services and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance is also affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing, specifically the price of oil, can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which reduces demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, our customers sometimes delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their industries or markets. despite these favorable conditions, the general health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets impacts investments in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers impacts capital investment decisions and their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market conditions and global economic growth forecasts has in the past and may in the future prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 our inability to deliver our backlog on time could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2019 , our backlog was $2.2 billion . in 2020 , our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. our manufacturing plant operations, capacity and supply chain are subject to disruption as a result of equipment failure, severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, cyber-based attacks, conflicts or unrest, epidemics (including the ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from china) or pandemics, labor disputes, acts of god, or other reasons. we may also encounter capacity limitations due to changes in demand despite our forecasting efforts. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to late delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with contract terms and customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, damage existing customer relationships, increase our costs, reduce our sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to successfully execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our transformation and strategic realignment and other cost-saving initiatives could adversely affect our business. in the second quarter of 2018, we launched and committed resources to our flowserve 2.0 transformation, a program designed to transform our business model to drive operational excellence, reduce complexity, accelerate growth, improve organizational health and better leverage our existing global platform. while we have experienced significant financial benefits from our flowserve 2.0 transformation, we may not realize the full benefits that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. adverse effects from our execution of transformation and realignment activities could interfere with our realization of anticipated synergies, customer service improvements and cost savings from these strategic initiatives. additionally, our ability to fully realize the benefits and implement the transformation and realignment programs is limited by the terms of our credit facilities and other contractual commitments. moreover, because such expenses are difficult to predict and are necessarily inexact, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the execution of our transformation and realignment plans in excess of what is currently anticipated. further, transformation and realignment activities are a complex and time-consuming process that can place substantial demands on management, which could divert attention from other business priorities or disrupt our daily operations. any of these failures could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could constrain our liquidity. if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected, and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our transformation and realignment efforts prove ineffective. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end-user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, project management, proximity to service centers, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow-growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their supply chain. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, technology, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. in addition, negative publicity or other organized campaigns critical of us, through social media or otherwise, could negatively affect our reputation. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 12 failure to successfully develop and introduce new products could limit our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. the success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring these products and services to market. our inability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices may adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our continuous improvement process initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily source certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions, raw materials and components from china, eastern europe, india and latin america. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe and latin america, and political conditions in russia, the middle east, asia, north africa, latin america and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; political, financial market or economic instability relating to brexit; political, financial market or economic instability relating to epidemics (including the ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from china) or pandemics; uncertainties related to any geopolitical, economic and regulatory effects or changes due to recent or upcoming domestic and international elections; the imposition of governmental economic sanctions on countries in which we do business, including russia and venezuela; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; increased aging and slower collection of receivables, particularly in latin america and other emerging markets; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and 13 difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that are affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in russia, the middle east, asia and north africa could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. in addition, emerging markets pose other uncertainties, including challenges to our ability to protect our intellectual property, pressure on the pricing of our products and increased risk of political instability, and may prefer local suppliers because of existing relationships, local restrictions or incentives. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations may be impacted by the united kingdom's exit from the european union. the united kingdom's june 2016 referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ) and subsequent developments related to the referendum have caused and may continue to cause volatility in the global stock markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic uncertainty, which could adversely affect our customers' ability to invest in capital expenditures, which may in turn reduce demand for our products and services. in addition, the withdrawal from the european union may result on other potential outcomes, adversely affecting the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union, significantly disrupt trade between the united kingdom and the european union and other parties, and result in greater restrictions on imports and exports between the u.k. and other european union countries, among other regulatory complexities. these potential and unknown outcomes and uncertainties related to brexit and its impact on the global economic climate could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws, regulations and policies, both internationally and domestically, which could adversely affect our business. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws, regulations and policies to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws, regulations or policies. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. compliance with laws and any new laws or regulations may increase our operations costs or require significant capital expenditures. any failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or policies in the u.s. or in any other country in which we operate could result in substantial fines and penalties, which could adversely affect our business. in particular, there is uncertainty related to the current u.s. administration's support or plans for new or existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries, such as the january 2017 u.s. withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership, which may affect restrictions or tariffs imposed on products we buy or sell. these factors, together with other key global events during 2019 (such as the continuing uncertainty arising from the brexit transition, as well as ongoing terrorist activity), may adversely impact the ability or willingness of non-u.s. companies to transact business in the u.s. this uncertainty may also affect regulations and trade agreements affecting u.s. companies, global stock markets (including the nyse, on which 14 our common shares are traded), currency exchange rates, and general global economic conditions. all of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. implementation of new tariffs and changes to or uncertainties related to tariffs and trade agreements could adversely affect our business. the u.s. has recently announced the implementation of certain new tariffs on steel and aluminum imported into the country, and is reportedly also considering additional tariffs. in response, certain foreign governments have implemented or are reportedly considering implementing additional tariffs on u.s. goods. in addition, there have been recent changes to trade agreements, like the u.s. withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership and the replacement of the north american free trade agreement with the united states-mexico-canada agreement. uncertainties with respect to tariffs, trade agreements, or any potential trade wars negatively impact the global economic markets and could affect our customers' ability to invest in capital expenditures, which may in turn result in reduced demand for our products and services, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. changes in tariffs could also result in changes in supply and demand of our raw material needs, affect our manufacturing capabilities and lead to increased prices that we may not be able to effectively pass on to customers, each of which could materially adversely affect our operating margins, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which could adversely affect our business. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar and argentine peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, such as the uk bribery act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. because we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree, our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide. violation of the fcpa or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars, natural or manmade disasters, epidemics or pandemics, acts of god and other such events around the world may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market for our common stock. as a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to, among other things, terrorist acts, conflicts, wars, severe weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters, including power outages, fires, explosions, cyber-based attacks, epidemics (including the ongoing coronavirus outbreak emanating from china) or pandemics, labor disputes, and acts of god wherever located around the world. the potential for future such events, the national and international responses to such events or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, such as the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing instability in syria and egypt, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our 15 customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at five superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress, state and foreign legislatures and federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction programs may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and/or the paris climate agreement and these and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration affect our international operations. when our customers, particularly those involved in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical processing or petroleum refining industries, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, new laws and regulations that might favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels, including nuclear, wind, solar and bio-fuels or that are designed to increase energy efficiency, could dampen demand for oil and gas production or power generation resulting in lower spending by customers for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. additionally, even without such laws and regulations, increased awareness and adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the levels of greenhouse gas emissions by companies in the manufacturing and energy industry could reduce customer demand for our products and services or harm our reputation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that coverage or payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable 16 rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately 17,000 employees, of which approximately 5,000 were located in the u.s. approximately 5% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, finland, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, south africa, spain, sweden and the u.k. no individual unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. our ability to successfully negotiate new and acceptable agreements when the existing agreements with employees covered by collective bargaining expire could result in business disruptions or increased costs. our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract, train, develop and retain a skilled workforce. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to effectively replace the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce as workers retire. without a properly skilled and experienced workforce, our costs, including productivity costs and costs to replace employees may increase, and this could negatively impact our earnings. in addition, our policies prohibit harassment or discrimination in the workplace. notwithstanding our conducting training and taking disciplinary action or other actions against or in response to alleged violations, we may encounter additional costs from claims made and/or legal proceedings brought against us, and we could suffer reputational harm. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for officers and employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection are unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. resorting to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights is burdensome and costly, and we may not always prevail. further, adequate remedies are not always available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. failure to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., belgium, canada, india, mexico, the netherlands, switzerland and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany, italy, japan and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. this impact may be 17 particularly prevalent where we maintain significant concentrations of specified investments, such as the u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. regulations have increased the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans in prior years, which has at times required significant contributions to our pension plans. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. increased costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. from time to time, we are exposed to product liability and warranty claims when the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. some of our products are designed to support the most critical, severe service applications in the markets that we serve and any failure of such products could result in significant product liability and warranty claims, as well as damage to our reputation in the marketplace. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs that are not reimbursable. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $113 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. in addition, tax law changes could negatively impact our deferred tax assets. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, we may need new or additional financing in the future to expand our business or refinance our existing indebtedness. our current senior credit facility matures on july 16, 2024 and our senior notes are due in 2022 and 2023. for additional information regarding our current indebtedness refer to note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our inability to timely access capital on satisfactory terms, including as a result of market disruptions, could limit our ability to expand our business as desired and refinance our indebtedness. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; fully utilize the capacity under the senior credit facility; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. we are also required to maintain certain debt ratings, comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these 18 covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our growth strategy depends on our ability to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs which could materially affect our business. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense or may require equity financing, resulting in ownership dilution to existing shareholders. in addition, acquisitions sometimes require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. when we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations creates operating challenges and requires significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience, and have experienced in the past, include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. goodwill impairment could negatively impact our net income and shareholders' equity. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. reductions in or impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. there are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. these risks include, but are not limited to, lowered expectations of future financial results, adverse changes in the business climate, increase in the discount rate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, the loss of key personnel, a more-likely-than-not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, a sustained decline in the company's market capitalization, and significant, prolonged negative variances between actual and expected financial results. in recent years, the estimated fair value of our pump reporting unit has fluctuated, partially due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressures experienced in the oil and gas markets. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our pump reporting unit as of december 31, 2019 , we will continue to monitor their performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment. for additional information, see the discussion in item 7 of this annual report and under note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. 19 a significant data breach or disruption to our information technology infrastructure could adversely affect our business operations. our information technology networks and related systems and devices and those technology systems under control of third parties with whom we do business are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. these information technology networks and related systems and devices may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to programming errors, defects or other vulnerabilities, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, malware attacks, ransomware attacks, theft, misconduct by employees or other insiders, misuse, human errors or other events. if any of the aforementioned breaches or disruptions occur and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. in addition, any of the aforementioned breaches or disruptions could expose us to a risk of loss, disclosure, misuse, corruption, or interruption of sensitive and critical data, information and functions, including our proprietary and confidential information and information related to our customers, suppliers and employees. it is also possible a security breach could result in theft of trade secret or other intellectual property. while we devote substantial resources to maintaining adequate levels of cybersecurity, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all of the rapidly evolving forms of increasingly sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks, or avoid or limit a material adverse impact on our systems after such incidents or attacks occur. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, loss of customers, litigation with third parties, regulatory actions and fines, theft of intellectual property, disruption of manufacturing plant operations and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. if we are unable to prevent, anticipate, detect or adequately respond to security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be materially and adversely affected. recent legal developments in europe could result in changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or otherwise harm our business. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders and must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the u.s. and elsewhere. for example, the e.u. recently adopted the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ). the gdpr imposes additional obligations on companies regarding the handling of personal data and provides certain individual privacy rights to persons whose data is stored. compliance with existing, proposed and recently enacted laws and regulations can be costly; any failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to legal and reputational risks, including proceedings against the company by governmental entities or others, fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and credibility and could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. ineffective internal controls could impact the accuracy and timely reporting of our business and financial results. our internal control over financial reporting has not always prevented or detected misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties in their implementation, could harm our business and financial results and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. for example, during its evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 management concluded that a deficiency in our internal controls related to the control environment primarily related to the operation of certain inventory controls or recording of unsupported manual journal entries at one of the non-u.s. sites and the design and maintenance of effective business performance reviews represented material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, therefore, that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016. management actively engaged in the planning and implementation of remediation efforts to address these material weaknesses and to strengthen the overall internal control related to the control environment at the one non-u.s. site and the business review controls and believes that such remediation efforts have effectively remediated the material weaknesses. changes in accounting principles and guidance could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. a change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and financial results. the adoption of new or revised accounting principles may require us to make changes to our systems, processes and internal controls, which could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and internal controls, cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, retroactively affect previously reported results or require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems upon our following the adoption of these standards. 20 forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy and expectations, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements may include, among others, statements about our goals and strategies, new product introductions, plans to cultivate new businesses, future economic conditions, revenue, pricing, gross profit margin and costs, capital spending, expected cost savings from our realignment programs, depreciation and amortization, research and development expenses, potential impairment of assets, tax rate and pending tax and legal proceedings. in some cases forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts," "seeks" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations and have sufficient capacity under our senior credit facility to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2020 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we will seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2020 , our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives, information technology infrastructure, general upgrades 40 and cost reduction opportunities and we currently estimate capital expenditures to be between $90 million and $100 million , before consideration of any acquisition activity. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid, in 2020 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $2 million in 2020 , excluding direct benefits paid. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2019 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) senior notes $ $ 1,055.9 $ 298.2 $ $ 1,354.1 fixed interest payments(1) 36.5 62.3 10.5 109.3 other debt 11.3 11.8 23.1 leases: operating 42.2 83.3 18.2 84.7 228.4 finance 4.9 7.2 0.3 0.1 12.5 purchase obligations:(2) inventory 496.3 8.9 0.2 505.4 non-inventory 48.0 0.2 0.3 48.5 pension and postretirement benefits(3) 61.7 125.1 125.3 300.7 612.8 total $ 700.9 $ 1,354.7 $ 453.0 $ 385.5 $ 2,894.1 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent interest payments on the senior notes as defined in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. (2) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (3) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2019 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $40.6 million . we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2019 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 343,407 $ 148,665 $ 14,050 $ 52,395 $ 558,517 surety bonds 70,445 11,889 196 3,526 86,056 total $ 413,852 $ 160,554 $ 14,246 $ 55,921 $ 644,573 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions 41 we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 65% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 53% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2019 . unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") fixed income securities , as discussed in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain an acceptable level of risk. at december 31, 2019 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $745.1 million from $658.0 million at december 31, 2018 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2019 2018 cash and cash equivalents 1 % 1 % global equity 28 % 30 % global real assets 12 % 13 % equity securities 40 % 43 % diversified credit 12 % 13 % liability-driven investment 47 % 43 % fixed income 59 % 56 % non-u.s. plans asset category 2019 2018 cash and cash equivalents 2 % 7 % north american companies 1 % 3 % global equity 1 % 2 % equity securities 2 % 5 % u.k. government gilt index 43 % 43 % global fixed income bond % 2 % liability-driven investment 7 % 9 % fixed income 50 % 54 % multi-asset 19 % 19 % buy-in contract 21 % 10 % other 6 % 5 % other types 46 % 34 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $897.1 million and $809.2 million as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2020 is approximately $0.5 million and $10.9 million , respectively. we amortize any estimated net gains or losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants . we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. 42 the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $18.9 million and $18.8 million as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the estimated actuarial net gain and the estimated prior service cost for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2020 are immaterial . we amortize any estimated net gain or loss over the remaining average life expectancy of approximately 11 years . accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2019 , the service cost component of the pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $29.0 million compared with $29.4 million in 2018 and $29.5 million in 2017 . the non-service cost portion of net pension expense (e.g., interest cost, actuarial gains and losses and expected return on plan assets) for our defined benefit pension plans included in other income (expense), net was $1.8 million , compared to a benefit of $1.2 million in 2018 and an expense of $5.7 million in 2017 . the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2019 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 3.41 % 1.61 % rate of increase in compensation levels 3.50 3.12 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2019 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.00 % 3.37 % discount rate 4.34 2.42 rate of increase in compensation levels 3.50 3.28 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.9 ) $ 2.0 effect on benefit obligation (18.5 ) 20.1 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (0.6 ) 0.8 effect on benefit obligation (31.7 ) 36.0 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on benefit obligation (0.5 ) 0.6 43 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (2.1 ) $ 2.1 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.1 ) 1.1 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants . at december 31, 2019 , as compared with december 31, 2018 , we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 4.34% to 3.41% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had lower yields due to current market conditions. the average discount rate for the non-u.s. plans decreased from 2.42% to 1.61% based on analysis of bonds and other publicly-traded instruments, by country, which had lower yields due to market conditions . the average assumed rate of compensation remained unchanged at 3.50% for the u.s. plan and decreased to 3.12% from 3.28% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2019 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets remained constant at 6.00% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 3.62% to 3.37% , primarily based on our target allocations and expected long-term asset returns. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market fluctuations do not significantly impact the rate. for all u.s. plans, we adopted the pri-2012 mortality tables and the mp-2019 improvement scale published in october 2019. we applied the pri-2012 tables based on the constituency of our plan population for union and non-union participants. we adjusted the improvement scale to utilize 75% of the ultimate improvement rate, consistent with assumptions adopted by the social security administration trustees, based on long-term historical experience. currently, we believe this approach provides the best estimate of our future obligation. most plan participants elect to receive plan benefits as a lump sum at the end of service, rather than an annuity. as such, the updated mortality tables had an immaterial effect on our pension obligation. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $3.6 million higher in 2020 than the $30.8 million in 2019 , primarily due to an increase in the amortization of actuarial losses and no anticipated special events. we have used discount rates of 3.41% , 1.61% and 3.27% at december 31, 2019 , in calculating our estimated 2020 net pension expense for the u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and postretirement medical plans , respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 7.5% for 2019 , 7.0% for 2018 and 7% for 2017 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2029 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $37.3 million , $48.1 million and $44.9 million to our defined benefit plans in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2020 will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $2 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2020 , excluding direct benefits paid. for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent loss; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed at least annually if not quarterly by management. because 44 of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition we recognize revenue when (or as) we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control to a customer. transfer of control is evaluated based on the customer's ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the benefits of a performance obligation. revenue is recognized either over time or at a point in time, depending on the specific facts and circumstances for each contract, including the terms and conditions of the contract as agreed with the customer and the nature of the products or services to be provided. our primary method for recognizing revenue over time is the percentage of completion ( poc ) method, whereby progress towards completion is measured by applying an input measure based on costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion. if control of the products and/or services does not transfer over time, then control transfers at a point in time. we determine the point in time that control transfers to a customer based on the evaluation of specific indicators, such as title transfer, risk of loss transfer, customer acceptance and physical possession. for a discussion related to revenue recognition refer to note 2 included in item 8 of this annual report. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is reasonably estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. 45 estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the u.k. and the eurozone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, 46 (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in four reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. an impairment loss for goodwill is recognized if the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2019, 2018 or 2017. we also considered our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization increased as compared with 2018 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2019. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of a trademark by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting unit discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2019 , 2018 or 2017 . the recoverable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the recoverable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing assumptions similar to those for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developmen ts we have presented the informati on about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. 47 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, hungarian forint, indian rupee, japanese yen, mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona, russian ruble, malaysian ringgit and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. in march 2015, we designated 255.7 million of our 500.0 million 2022 eur senior notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net gains (losses) associated with foreign currency translation of $6.6 million , $(63.1) million and $98.8 million for the years ended december 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive income (loss) . the net gain in 2019 was primarily driven by the weakening of the euro, british pound, chinese yuan and indian rupee versus the u.s. dollar at december 31, 2019 as compared with december 31, 2018 . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures. as of december 31, 2019 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $398.5 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in foreign exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $280.9 million at december 31, 2018 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of foreign exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net losses of $14.5 million , $18.7 million and $14.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, which are included in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2019 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2019 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $17 million . at december 31, 2018 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2018 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $3 million. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. 48risk factors 16 risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, while oil and gas prices have recently recovered somewhat from their lows, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their markets. disruptions in global financial markets and banking systems experienced in 2008 continue to create difficulties in accessing credit and capital markets, and the costs of newly raised debt have generally increased. continued difficulty in accessing these markets and the increased associated costs can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during favorable market conditions. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. continuing volatility in commodity prices, prolonged credit and capital market disruptions and a sluggish global economic recovery could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. the increased levels of disruption experienced by credit and capital markets around the globe in the latter half of 2008 and continuing through 2009 has included, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, reduced levels of liquidity and credit availability and declining and uncertain valuations. these disruptions, when combined with the volatility in commodity prices that has also been experienced, have contributed to a significant 16 table of contents decrease in the rate of general economic growth. while global economic conditions stabilized generally in the latter half of 2009, a sluggish global economic recovery or extended slowing of global economic activity could adversely affect the businesses of our customers, which could potentially result in delays or cancellations of orders for our products. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to deliver our sizeable backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2009, backlog was $2.4 billion. in 2010, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are fragmented and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. while competitive environments in slow growth industries and for original equipment orders are inherently more influenced by pricing, domestic and global economic conditions during 2009 and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are not able to execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our strategic realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. at the outset of 2009, we announced a strategic realignment initiative intended to reduce and optimize certain non-strategic manufacturing facilities and our overall cost structure. this initiative was expanded in the latter half of 2009 to include additional realignment activities in the remainder of 2009 and continuing to a lesser extent into 2010, and involves structural changes in our global manufacturing footprint through additional migration to low-cost regions, additional consolidation of product manufacturing and further sg a reductions. we also announced as part of our larger realignment strategy and to better serve our customers that, effective january 1, 2010, we consolidated the flowserve pump division and flow solutions division into the new flow solutions group. 17 table of contents while we anticipate significant financial benefits from our strategic realignment, anticipated cost savings are by their nature estimates that are difficult to predict and are necessarily inexact. further, our integration of the flowserve pump and flow solutions divisions and our additional realignment activities will place substantial demands on our management, which could divert attention from other business priorities. if we are unable to integrate our businesses successfully or execute these realignment activities effectively, then we may fail to realize the anticipated synergies, customer service improvements and cost savings of this strategic initiative. this failure could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 70 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets and the middle east; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in the middle east could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. we are also investigating or have investigated certain allegations regarding foreign management engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our code of business conduct, which could have inappropriately benefited them at our expense. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 table of contents our international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations and various programs administered by the united nations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we are also subject to risks associated with certain of our foreign subsidiaries autonomously making sales and providing related services, under their own local authority, to customers in countries that have been designated by the u.s. state department as state sponsors of terrorism, including iran, syria and sudan. due to the growing political uncertainties associated with these countries, in 2006, our foreign subsidiaries began a voluntary withdrawal, on a phased basis, from conducting new business in these countries. the aggregate amount of all business done by our foreign subsidiaries for customers in iran, syria and sudan accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated global revenue in 2009. while substantially all new business with these countries has been voluntarily phased out, our foreign subsidiaries may independently continue to honor certain existing contracts, commitments and warranty obligations in compliance with u.s. and other applicable laws and regulations. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, argentina peso, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, russian ruble, indian rupee, singapore dollar, swedish krona and venezuelan bolivar. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the argentinean peso and the venezuelan bolivar, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. noncompliance with u.s. export control laws could materially adversely affect our business. in march 2006, we initiated a voluntary process to determine our compliance posture with respect to u.s. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations. upon initial investigation, it appeared that some product transactions and technology transfers were not handled in full compliance with u.s. export control laws and regulations. as a result, in conjunction with outside counsel, we conducted a voluntary systematic process to further review, validate and voluntarily disclose export violations discovered as part of this review process. we completed our comprehensive disclosures to the appropriate u.s. government regulatory authorities at the end of 2008, and we continue to work with those authorities to supplement and clarify specific aspects of those disclosures. based on our review of the data collected, during the self-disclosure period of october 1, 2002 through october 1, 2007, a number of process pumps, valves, mechanical seals and parts related thereto were exported, in limited circumstances, without required export or reexport licenses or without full compliance with all applicable rules and regulations to a number of different countries throughout the world, including certain u.s. sanctioned countries. the foregoing information is subject to revision as we further review this submittal with applicable u.s. regulatory authorities. any self-reported violations of u.s. export control laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal penalties, including fines and/or other penalties. we are currently engaged in discussions with u.s. regulators about 19 table of contents such penalties as part of our effort to resolve this matter; however, while we currently do not believe any such penalties will have a material adverse impact on our company, we are currently unable to definitively determine the full extent or nature or total amount of penalties to which we might be subject as a result of any such self-reported violations of the u.s. export control laws and regulations. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a major multi-national company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing military operations in the middle east at large, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are currently subject to a conditional securities class action litigation settlement, which if not finalized, could lead to continued litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, certain of our former officers, our independent auditors and the lead underwriters of our most recent public stock offerings, alleging securities laws violations. by orders dated november 13, 2007 and january 4, 2008, the trial court denied the plaintiffs request for class certification and also granted summary judgment in favor of us and all other defendants on all of the plaintiffs claims. the plaintiffs appealed both rulings to the federal fifth circuit court of appeals, and on june 19, 2009, the fifth circuit issued an opinion vacating the trial court denial of class certification, reversing in part and vacating in part the trial court entry of summary judgment. as a result, the case was remanded to the trial court for further proceedings consistent with the opinion and further consideration of certain issues, including whether the plaintiffs can demonstrate that the case should be certified as a class action. following the issuance of the court of appeals opinion, we engaged in discussions among the parties in furtherance of an amicable resolution of the case, which resulted in a stipulation of settlement being executed and filed with the trial court. the settlement is subject to various customary conditions, including preliminary approval by the trial court, notice to class members, class member opt-out thresholds, a final hearing and final approval by the trial court. these conditions may not occur, and we must therefore be prepared to continue the case if they do not occur. if the litigation proceeds, we continue to strongly believe that we have valid defenses to the claims asserted, and we will continue to vigorously defend this case. in addition to the significant expense and burden we could then incur in further defending this litigation and any damages that we could suffer, our management attention and resources could be further diverted from ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. if the final resolution of this litigation is then unfavorable to us and our existing insurance coverage is either unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. 20 table of contents we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at three superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged fair share allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2009, we had approximately 15,000 employees, of which approximately 5,500 were located in the u.s. approximately 7% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. no unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement on our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual 21 table of contents property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., india, japan, mexico, the netherlands and the united kingdom, and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. the performance of global financial markets in 2008, and to a lesser extent in 2009, has reduced the value of investments held in trust to support pension plans. additionally, u.s. regulations are continually increasing the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans. the combined impact of these changes required significant contributions to our pension plans in 2009, which will continue, albeit to a lesser extent, in 2010. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. 22 table of contents the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $226 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; change fiscal year; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted payments; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. our bank credit facilities also contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders certificates of compliance with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. in addition, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense, and could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; 23 table of contents hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as may, should, expect, plans, forecasts, targets, seeks, anticipate, believe, estimate, predicts, potential, continue, intends, or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this risk factors heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments, pension plan contributions and realignment programs in 2010. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory, and requiring progress payments from customers on long lead time projects. however, the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, backlog, customer acceptance and other factors. additionally, tightening in our end markets may limit our ability to require progress payments from customers on new orders. in 2010, our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, erp application upgrades, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and are expected to be between $110 million and $125 million, before consideration of any acquisition activity. we have $5.7 million in scheduled repayments in 2010 under our credit facilities, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our credit facilities in 2010. see the liquidity and capital resources section of this md a for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be between $30 million and $40 million, excluding direct benefits paid, in 2010 in order to maintain fully funded status, as defined by the pension protection act, for 2010. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $10 million in 2010. venezuela on january 8, 2010, the venezuelan government announced its intention to devalue its currency (bolivar) and move to a two-tier exchange structure effective january 11, 2010. the official exchange rate is expected to move from 2.15 to 4.30 bolivars to the u.s. dollar for non-essential items and to 2.60 bolivars to the u.s. dollar for essential items. additionally, effective january 1, 2010, venezuela has been designated as hyperinflationary, and as a result, we began to use the u.s. dollar as our functional currency in venezuela effective january 1, 2010. in accordance with hyperinflationary accounting, all future currency fluctuations between the bolivar and the u.s. dollar will be recorded in our statements of income. our operations in venezuela generally consist of a service center that imports equipment and parts from certain of our other locations for re-sale to third parties within venezuela and performs service and repair activities. our venezuelan subsidiary sales in 2009 and total assets at december 31, 2009 represented approximately 1% or less of our consolidated sales and total assets for the same periods. although approvals by venezuela commission for the administration of foreign exchange have slowed, we have historically been able to remit dividends and other payments at the official rate, and we currently anticipate doing so in the future. accordingly, at december 31, 2009, we used the official rate of 2.15 bolivars to the u.s. dollar for re-measurement and translation of our venezuelan financial statements. our preliminary assessment of the impact of the devaluation is that we will incur an after-tax charge of approximately $14 million in the first 51 table of contents quarter of 2010 as a result of re-measuring monetary assets and liabilities using the official rate of 4.30 bolivars to the u.s. dollar. we are currently assessing the ongoing impact of the currency devaluation on our venezuelan operations and imports into the market, including the venezuelan subsidiary ability to remit cash for dividends and other payments at the official rate, the potential ability of our imported products to be classified as essential items and the ability to recover exchange losses, as well as further actions of the venezuelan government and economic conditions in venezuela, such as inflation and capital spending. the hyperinflationary designation and currency devaluation had no impact on our financial position or results of operations as of and for the year ended december 31, 2009 included in this annual report. segment reorganization during the first quarter of 2010, we are reorganizing our divisional operations by combining fpd and fsd into the new flow solutions group ( fsg ). we believe the combination of fpd and fsd enables us to continue building a strong customer focus for rotating equipment and related products and services, drive an enhanced customer-facing organization and further leverage best practices and capabilities. we expect the combined strength of fsg to provide greater efficiency for integrated component manufacturing, leverage in global spending and manufacturing resources and improve productivity through the use of common tools and processes to select, design, manufacture, distribute and service our product portfolio. fsg will be divided into two reportable segments based on type of product: engineered and industrial. engineered will include the longer lead-time, highly engineered pump product operations of the former fpd and substantially all of the operations of the former fsd. industrial will consist of the more standardized, general purpose pump product operations of the former fpd. fcd remains unchanged. this division reorganization had no effect on our reportable segments in 2009 and is not reflected in any of the accompanying financial information included in this annual report. beginning in 2010, our segment reporting will reflect the structure described above, and prior periods will be retrospectively adjusted to conform to our 2010 reportable segment structure presentation. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2009: payments due by period beyond 5 within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years years total (amounts in millions) long-term debt $ 5.7 $ 538.3 $ $ $ 544.0 fixed interest payments(1) 5.5 (0.4 ) 5.1 variable interest payments(2) 10.0 13.2 23.2 capital lease obligations 21.7 1.0 22.7 operating leases 42.6 64.9 36.0 30.6 174.1 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 538.1 9.1 3.9 0.9 552.0 non-inventory 47.4 8.1 2.0 57.5 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 50.6 101.0 108.0 294.1 553.7 total $ 721.6 $ 735.2 $ 149.9 $ 325.6 $ 1,932.3 (1) fixed interest payments represent net incremental payments under interest rate swap agreements. (2) variable interest payments under our credit facilities were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2009. (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plan, as more fully described below and in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. 52 table of contents as of december 31, 2009, the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $130.2 million. we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2009: commitment expiration by period beyond 5 within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 398.1 $ 143.3 $ 38.4 $ 4.9 $ 584.7 surety bonds 40.0 6.3 2.3 48.6 total $ 438.1 $ 149.6 $ 40.7 $ 4.9 $ 633.3 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations required by asc 715 compensation retirement benefits. in accounting for retirement plans, management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, turnover, health care cost trend rates and mortality rates. depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time and part-time employees. approximately 72% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 57% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2009. the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants compensation and years of credited service. assets under our defined benefit pension plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities. at december 31, 2009, the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $427.2 million from $289.0 million at december 31, 2008. assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2009 2008 u.s. large cap 39 % u.s. small cap 6 % international large cap 11 % equity securities 56 % 66 % long-term government / credit 11 % intermediate bond 32 % fixed income 43 % 30 % multi-strategy hedge fund 1 % other 0 % other 1 % 4 % 53 table of contents non-u.s. plans asset category 2009 2008 north american companies 5 % u.k. companies 27 % european companies 8 % asian pacific companies 5 % global equity 3 % emerging markets 0 % equity securities 48 % 47 % u.k. government gilt index 19 % u.k. corporate bond index 15 % global fixed income bond 15 % fixed income 49 % 51 % other 3 % 2 % the projected benefit obligation ( benefit obligation ) for our defined benefit pension plans was $606.7 million and $532.4 million as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the estimated prior service benefit for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2010 is $1.2 million. the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2010 is $12.3 million. we amortize estimated prior service benefits and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime of inactive participants for plans with only inactive participants. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $40.2 million and $43.1 million as of december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the estimated prior service benefit for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2010 is $1.9 million. the estimated actuarial net benefit for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2010 is $2.3 million. we amortize estimated prior service benefits and estimated net gain over the remaining expected service period. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits necessarily requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase, and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following 54 table of contents year. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. see discussion of our assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md a. in 2009, net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in income from continuing operations was $35.7 million compared with $29.5 million in 2008 and $32.1 million in 2007. the postretirement benefit (gain) expense for the postretirement medical plans was $(2.3) million in 2009 compared with $1.1 million in 2008 and $(0.1) million in 2007. the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2009: u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: discount rate 5.50 % 5.41 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.80 3.58 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2009 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 7.75 % 4.38 % discount rate 6.75 5.47 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.80 3.07 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% 0.5% increase decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.0 ) $ 1.0 effect on benefit obligation (12.3 ) 13.2 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.0 ) 1.2 effect on benefit obligation (20.3 ) 21.8 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.1 ) 0.1 effect on benefit obligation (1.0 ) 1.1 55 table of contents effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% 0.5% increase decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.4 ) $ 1.4 effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (0.5 ) 0.5 effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense n/a n/a effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2009, as compared to december 31, 2008, we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 6.75% to 5.50% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had a lower yield due to current market conditions. we decreased our average rate for non-u.s. plans from 5.47% to 5.41% based primarily on lower applicable iboxx corporate aa bond indices for the united kingdom and the euro zone. we maintained our average assumed rate of compensation increase at 4.8% for the u.s. plan and increased the average rate of compensation increase for our non-us plans from 3.07% to 3.58%. to determine the 2009 pension expense, we decreased the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets from 8.00% to 7.75% and we increased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 4.35% to 4.38%, primarily based on our target allocations and expected long-term asset returns. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be $0.3 million higher in 2010 than the $35.7 million in 2009, reflecting, among other things, the increased amortization of the actuarial net loss. we expect the 2010 benefit for the postretirement medical plan to be $2.2 million, primarily reflecting amortization of the increased actuarial net gain. we have used discount rates of 5.50% and 5.25% at december 31, 2009, in calculating our estimated 2010 cost of pension benefits and cost of other postretirement benefits for u.s. plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 9.0% for 2009, 7.8% for 2008 and 8.8% for 2007, with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2031 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $101.2 million, $71.0 million and $30.1 million to our defined benefit plans in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. after consideration of the impact of our contributions in 2009, the partial recovery in 2009 of asset value declines in 2008 and our intent to remain fully-funded, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2010 will be between $30 million and $40 million, excluding direct benefits paid, and we expect to contribute approximately $10 million to our non-u.s. pension plans. for further discussions on pension and postretirement benefits, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of 56 table of contents related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent losses; retirement and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed quarterly by management, and management presents its views to the audit committee of our board of directors. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectability. for contracts containing multiple elements, each having a determinable fair value, we recognize revenue in an amount equal to the element pro rata share of the contract fair value in accordance with the contractual delivery terms for each element. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. revenues for long-term contracts, which include contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer, are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 12% of our consolidated sales in 2009. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years. fixed fee service contracts represent less than 1% of our consolidated sales in 2009. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in circumstances where the total projected reduced revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance 57 table of contents and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, and our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur, and are included in retirement obligations and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. estimated receivables are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. in our review we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation rates. we also compare our significant assumptions with our peers. the methodology to set our assumptions are: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an 58 table of contents analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the united kingdom and the euro zone we use the most applicable iboxx corporate aa bond indices. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans liabilities. health care cost trend rates are developed based upon historical retiree cost trend data, long-term health care outlook and industry benchmarks. the inflation assumptions are based upon both our specific trends and nationally expected trends. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. retirement rates are based upon actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates are based on published actuarial tables relevant to the countries in which we have plans. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors, and discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangibles requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units, which correlate to our operating segments. the test of indefinite-lived intangibles involves significant judgment in estimating projections of future sales levels. impairment losses for goodwill are recognized whenever the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2009, 2008 or 2007. we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization increased in 2009 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2009. impairment losses for intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a relief from royalty method, which estimates the fair value of the trademarks by determining the present value of the royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that are consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record an impairment of our trademarks in 2009, 2008 or 2007. the net realizable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, is reviewed periodically, when indicators of potential impairments are present, based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing a methodology similar to that for goodwill. additional considerations 59 table of contents related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2009, after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had $159.0 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our credit facilities with a weighted average interest rate of 1.81%. a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $1.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2009. at both december 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $385.0 of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties with varying maturities through december 2010. foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and, therefore, do not hedge these investments. we use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net gains (losses) associated with foreign currency translation of $63.0 million, $(126.7) million and $50.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are included in other comprehensive income (expense). based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2009, a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2009 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $31.2 million, due primarily to the euro. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed below. see discussion of the impact in 2010 of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and changes in the fair values of these instruments are included in other income, net in the accompanying consolidated 60 table of contents statements of income. as of december 31, 2009, we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $309.6 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in forward exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $555.7 million at december 31, 2008. transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites functional currencies and changes in fair value of certain forward exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net (losses) gains of $(7.8) million, $16.6 million and $6.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, which is included in other (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. hedging related transactions, which are related to interest rate swaps and recorded to other comprehensive (expense) income, net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: year ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (amounts in thousands) (loss) gain reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into income for settlements, net of tax $ (5,980 ) $ 2,863 $ (1,553 ) (loss) gain recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax (2,473 ) (1,243 ) (5,458 ) cash flow hedging activity, net of tax $ 3,507 $ (4,106 ) $ (3,905 ) we expect to recognize (losses) gains of $(3.5) million and $0.3 million, net of deferred taxes, into earnings in 2010 and 2011, respectively, related to interest rate swap agreements based on their fair values at december 31, 2009. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not 16 table of contents presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their markets. lingering effects of global financial markets and banking systems disruptions experienced in 2008 and 2009 continue to make credit and capital markets difficult for some companies to access, and the costs of newly raised debt for most companies have generally increased. any difficulty in accessing these markets and the increased associated costs can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during favorable market conditions. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market disruptions and a sluggish global economic recovery could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 table of contents we may be unable to deliver our sizeable backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2010, backlog was $2.6 billion. in 2011, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions during 2010, and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. if we are not able to execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our strategic realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. at the outset of 2009, we announced a strategic realignment initiative intended to reduce and optimize certain non-strategic manufacturing facilities and our overall cost structure. this initiative was expanded in the latter half of 2009 to include additional realignment activities in the remainder of 2009 and continuing to a lesser extent into 2010 and 2011. this initiative involved structural changes in our global manufacturing footprint through additional migration to low-cost regions, additional consolidation of product manufacturing and further selling, general and administrative expense ( sg a ) reductions. we also announced as part of our larger realignment strategy and to better serve our customers that, effective january 1, 2010, we consolidated the former flowserve pump division and former flow solutions division into the flow solutions group. while we anticipate significant financial benefits from our strategic realignment, anticipated cost savings are by their nature estimates that are difficult to predict and are necessarily inexact. further, integration and realignment 18 table of contents activities can place substantial demands on management, which could divert attention from other business priorities. while our activities concerning these initiatives are substantially complete, the lingering adverse effects from our integration and our execution of realignment activities could interfere with our realization of anticipated synergies, customer service improvements and cost savings from these strategic initiatives. this failure could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: instability in a specific country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets and the middle east; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in the middle east could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. we are also investigating or have investigated certain allegations regarding foreign management engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our code of business conduct, which could have inappropriately benefited them at our expense. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations and foreign subsidiaries are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the 19 table of contents u.s. department of commerce bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we are also subject to risks associated with certain of our foreign subsidiaries autonomously making sales and providing related services, under their own local authority, to customers in countries that have been designated by the u.s. state department as state sponsors of terrorism, including iran, syria and sudan. due to the growing political uncertainties associated with these countries, in 2006, our foreign subsidiaries began a voluntary withdrawal, on a phased basis, from conducting new business in these countries. the aggregate amount of all business done by our foreign subsidiaries for customers in iran, syria and sudan accounted for less than 0.5% of our consolidated global revenue in 2010. while substantially all new business with these countries has been voluntarily phased out, our foreign subsidiaries may independently continue to honor certain existing contracts, commitments and warranty obligations in compliance with u.s. and other applicable laws and regulations. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the argentinean peso and the venezuelan bolivar, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ) and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper business advantage. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree. if we are found to be liable for fcpa or other similar anti-bribery law or regulatory violations, whether due to our or others actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. noncompliance with u.s. export control laws could materially adversely affect our business. in march 2006, we initiated a voluntary process to determine our compliance posture with respect to u.s. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations. upon initial investigation, it appeared that some product transactions and technology transfers were not handled in full compliance with u.s. export control laws and regulations. as a result, in conjunction with outside counsel, we conducted a voluntary systematic process to further review, validate and voluntarily disclose export violations discovered as part of this review process. we completed our comprehensive disclosures to the appropriate u.s. government regulatory authorities at the end of 2008, and we continue to work with those authorities to supplement and clarify specific aspects of those disclosures. based on our review of the data collected, during the self-disclosure period of october 1, 2002 through october 1, 2007, a number of process pumps, valves, mechanical seals and parts related thereto were exported, in limited 20 table of contents circumstances, without required export or reexport licenses or without full compliance with all applicable rules and regulations to a number of different countries throughout the world, including certain u.s. sanctioned countries. any self-reported violations of u.s. export control laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal penalties, including fines and/or other penalties. we are currently engaged in discussions with u.s. regulators about such penalties as part of our effort to resolve this matter; however, we currently do not believe any such penalties will have a material adverse impact on our company. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a major multi-national company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing military operations in the middle east at large, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at four superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged fair share allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending 21 table of contents these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately 15,000 employees, of which approximately 5,000 were located in the u.s. approximately 7% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, poland, spain, sweden and the united kingdom. no unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., india, japan, mexico, the netherlands and the united kingdom, and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. the impact of the performance of global financial markets in recent years has reduced the value of investments held in trust to support pension plans. additionally, u.s. regulations are continually increasing the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans. the combined impact of these changes has required significant contributions to our pension plans in recent years, which is likely to continue, albeit to a lesser extent, in 2011. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes. 22 table of contents we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $225 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; change fiscal year; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. our bank credit facilities also contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders certificates of compliance with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, 23 table of contents resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as may, should, expects, could, intends, projects, predicts, plans, anticipates, estimates, believes, forecasts or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this risk factors heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities 24 table of contents litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2011. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. however, the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, backlog, customer acceptance and other factors. in 2011, our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and are expected to be between $120 million and $130 million, before consideration of any potential acquisition activity. we have $25.0 million in scheduled repayments in 2011 under our new credit facilities, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our new credit facilities in 2011. see the liquidity and capital resources section of this md a for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be between $7 million and $10 million, excluding direct benefits paid, in 2011 in order to maintain fully funded status, as defined by the u.s. pension protection act, for 2011. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $10 million in 2011. 53 table of contents contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2010: payments due by period beyond 5 within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years years total (amounts in millions) long-term debt $ 25.0 $ 75.0 $ 400.0 $ $ 500.0 fixed interest payments(1) 1.2 (0.6 ) 0.6 variable interest payments(2) 11.5 21.0 13.8 46.3 capital lease obligations and other debt 26.5 1.2 27.7 operating leases 45.2 66.0 31.3 32.4 174.9 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 588.1 38.1 3.0 1.4 630.6 non-inventory 33.6 2.2 0.7 1.2 37.7 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 49.9 101.6 107.9 290.1 549.5 total $ 781.0 $ 304.5 $ 556.7 $ 325.1 $ 1,967.3 (1) fixed interest payments represent net incremental payments under interest rate swap agreements. (2) variable interest payments under our credit facilities were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2010. (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. as of december 31, 2010, the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $104.6 million. we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2010: commitment expiration by period beyond 5 within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 411.9 $ 204.5 $ 26.9 $ 3.7 $ 647.0 surety bonds 74.1 6.7 2.7 0.8 84.3 total $ 486.0 $ 211.2 $ 29.6 $ 4.5 $ 731.3 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations required by accounting standards codification ( asc ) 715, compensation retirement benefits. in accounting for retirement plans, management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, turnover, health care cost trend rates and mortality rates. depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the 54 table of contents pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time and part-time employees. approximately 72% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 58% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2010. the assets for the u.s. qualified plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants compensation and years of credited service. assets under our defined benefit pension plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities. at december 31, 2010, the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $479.7 million from $427.2 million at december 31, 2009. assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2010 2009 u.s. large cap 35 % 39 % u.s. small cap 5 % 6 % international large cap 10 % 11 % equity securities 50 % 56 % long-term government/credit 29 % 11 % intermediate bond 21 % 32 % fixed income 50 % 43 % multi-strategy hedge fund 0 % 1 % other(1) 0 % 0 % other 0 % 1 % non-u.s. plans asset category 2010 2009 north american companies 5 % 5 % u.k. companies 26 % 27 % european companies 7 % 8 % asian pacific companies 6 % 5 % global equity 3 % 3 % emerging markets(1) 0 % 0 % equity securities 47 % 48 % u.k. government gilt index 18 % 19 % u.k. corporate bond index 15 % 15 % global fixed income bond 18 % 15 % fixed income 51 % 49 % other 2 % 3 % (1) less than 1% of holdings are in other and emerging markets. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. 55 table of contents the projected benefit obligation ( benefit obligation ) for our defined benefit pension plans was $625.7 million and $606.7 million as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the estimated prior service benefit for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2011 is $1.1 million. the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2011 is $12.7 million. we amortize estimated prior service benefits and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime of inactive participants for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $39.1 million and $40.2 million as of december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the estimated prior service benefit for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2011 is $1.6 million. the estimated actuarial net benefit for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2011 is $1.7 million. we amortize estimated prior service benefits and estimated net gain over the remaining expected service period of approximately four years. accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits necessarily requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. see discussion of our assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md a. in 2010, net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in income from continuing operations was $36.1 million compared with $35.7 million in 2009 and $29.5 million in 2008. the (gain) expense for the postretirement medical plans was $(2.4) million in 2010 compared with $(2.3) million in 2009 and $1.1 million in 2008. 56 table of contents the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2010: u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: discount rate 5.00 % 5.13 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 3.46 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2010 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 7.00 % 6.21 % discount rate 5.50 5.41 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.80 3.58 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.3 ) $ 1.3 effect on benefit obligation (12.9 ) 13.9 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.9 ) 2.0 effect on benefit obligation (20.1 ) 21.2 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.1 ) 0.2 effect on benefit obligation (1.0 ) 1.1 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.7 ) $ 1.7 effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (0.6 ) 0.6 effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense n/a n/a effect on benefit obligation n/a n/a as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2010, as compared to december 31, 2009, we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 5.50% to 5.00% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had a lower yield due to current market conditions. we decreased our average rate for non-u.s. plans from 5.41% to 5.13% based primarily on lower applicable corporate aa-graded bond yields for the u.k. and euro zone. we decreased our average assumed rate of compensation from 4.80% to 4.25% for the u.s. plan and from 3.58% to 3.46% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2010 pension expense, we decreased the expected rate of return on 57 table of contents u.s. plan assets from 7.75% to 7.00% and we increased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 4.38% to 6.21%, primarily as a result of the increase in the u.k. rate of return on assets. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $2 million higher in 2011 than the $36.1 million in 2010, reflecting, among other things, the increased amortization of the actuarial net loss. we expect the 2011 benefit for the postretirement medical plans to be approximately $1 million lower than the $2.4 million in 2010, primarily reflecting decreased amortization of the actuarial net gain. we have used discount rates of 5.00% and 4.75% at december 31, 2010, in calculating our estimated 2011 cost of pension benefits and cost of other postretirement benefits for u.s. plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 9.0% for 2010, 9.0% for 2009 and 7.8% for 2008, with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2032 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $50.2 million, $101.2 million and $71.0 million to our defined benefit plans in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. after consideration of the impact of our contributions in 2010, the partial recovery in 2010 and 2009 of asset value declines experienced in 2008 and our intent to remain fully-funded, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2011 will be between $7 million and $10 million, excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $10 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2011. for further discussions on pension and postretirement benefits, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent losses; retirement and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed quarterly by management, and management presents its views to the audit committee of our board of directors. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectability. for contracts containing multiple 58 table of contents elements, each having a determinable fair value, we recognize revenue in an amount equal to the element pro rata share of the contract fair value in accordance with the contractual delivery terms for each element. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 9% of our consolidated sales in 2010. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years. fixed fee service contracts represent less than 2% of our consolidated sales in 2010. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in circumstances where the total projected reduced revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, and our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. 59 table of contents reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur, and are included in retirement obligations and other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. estimated receivables are included in other assets, net in our consolidated balance sheets. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation rates. we also compare our significant assumptions with our peers. the methodology to set our assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the united kingdom and the euro zone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans liabilities. health care cost trend rates are developed based upon historical retiree cost trend data, long-term health care outlook and industry benchmarks. inflation assumptions are based upon both our specific trends and nationally expected trends. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. retirement rates are based upon actual and projected plan experience. mortality rates are based on published actuarial tables relevant to the countries in which we have plans. 60 table of contents the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors, and discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. in connection with the segment reorganization, we reallocated goodwill to our redefined reporting units and evaluated goodwill for impairment. the identification of the reporting units began at the operating segment level: epd, ipd and fcd, and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purposes of allocating goodwill and testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments, which resulted in nine reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. the test of indefinite-lived intangible assets involves significant judgment in estimating projections of future sales levels. impairment losses for goodwill are recognized whenever the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2010, 2009 or 2008. we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization increased in 2010 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2010. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a relief from royalty method, which estimates the fair value of the trademarks by determining the present value of the royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that are consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record an impairment of our trademarks in 2010, 2009 or 2008. the net realizable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed periodically, when indicators of potential impairments are present, based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing a methodology similar to that for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 61 table of contents accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our new credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2010, after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had $150.0 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our new credit facilities with a weighted average interest rate of 2.30%. a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $1.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2010. at december 31, 2010 and 2009, we had $350.0 million and $385.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties with varying maturities through september 2013. foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and, therefore, do not hedge these investments. we use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net (losses) gains associated with foreign currency translation of $(10.6) million, $63.0 million and $(126.7) million for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which are included in other comprehensive (expense) income. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2010, a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2010 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $23 million, due primarily to the euro. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed below. see discussion of the impact in 2010 of the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and changes in the fair values of these instruments are included in other (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. as of december 31, 2010, we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $358.5 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in forward exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $309.6 million at december 31, 2009. transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites functional currencies and changes in fair value of certain forward exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of 62 table of contents operations. we recognized net foreign currency (losses) gains of $(26.5) million, $(7.8) million and $16.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, which is included in other (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. hedging related transactions, which are related to interest rate swaps and recorded to other comprehensive (expense) income, net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: year ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (amounts in thousands) (loss) gain reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into income for settlements, net of tax $ (4,215 ) $ (5,980 ) $ 2,863 loss recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax (1,392 ) (2,473 ) (1,243 ) cash flow hedging activity, net of tax $ 2,823 $ 3,507 $ (4,106 ) we expect to recognize (losses) gains of $(1.2) million, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, net of deferred taxes, into earnings in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, related to interest rate swap agreements based on their fair values at december 31, 2010. 63 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. senior subordinated notes in 2000, we issued a principal amount of $290 million u.s. dollar tranche and 100 million euro tranche of our 12.25% senior subordinated notes, with an original issue discount resulting in a 12.50% yield. in 2001, we repurchased $101.5 million of the us dollar tranche notes and 35.0 million of the euro tranche notes with the proceeds of an equity offering. as discussed above, in the third quarter of 2005 we repaid all of the remaining senior subordinated notes, together with accrued interest thereon and a prepayment penalty, using the proceeds of borrowings under our new credit facilities. debt prepayments and repayments the following summarizes our repayment of indebtedness obligations under our 2000 credit facilities: 2004 2003 2002 (amounts in millions) scheduled repayment $ 27.5 $ 0.9 $ 33.8 mandatory repayment 167.9 optional prepayment 160.0 163.1 170.0 loss on debt repayment and extinguishment 2.7 1.3 11.2 47 table of contents under our 2000 credit facilities, we were required to use the proceeds of asset sales and new debt issuance, among other things, to pay down the principal amount outstanding. in addition to mandatory repayments, we made optional prepayments of principal from excess cash generated from operations. further, under our 2000 credit facilities, we were required to use a portion of our excess cash flow generated from operations during any fiscal year to repay term loans outstanding thereunder. based on the annual calculations performed as of december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, no repayments were due with respect to excess cash flow for the years then ended due to the high level of optional debt prepayment during the respective years. the loans under our new credit facilities are subject to mandatory repayment with, in general: 100% of the net cash proceeds of asset sales; and unless we attain and maintain investment grade credit ratings: 75% of our excess cash flow, subject to a reduction based on the ratio of our total debt to consolidated ebitda; 50% of the proceeds of any equity offerings; and 100% of the proceeds of any debt issuances (subject to certain exceptions). we may prepay loans under our new credit facilities in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. we incurred $9.3 million in fees related to the new facilities, of which $0.3 million were expensed in 2005. prior to the refinancing, we had $11.8 million of unamortized deferred loan costs related to the 2000 credit facilities and the senior subordinated notes. based upon the final syndicate of financial institutions for the new credit facilities, we expensed $10.5 million of these unamortized deferred loan costs in 2005. in addition to the total loan costs of $10.8 million that were expensed, we recorded a charge of $16.5 million for premiums paid to call the senior subordinated notes, for a total loss on extinguishment of $27.3 million recorded in 2005. the remaining $9.0 million of fees related to the new facilities were capitalized and combined with the remaining $1.3 million of previously unamortized deferred loan costs for a total of $10.3 million in deferred loan costs included in other assets, net. these costs will be amortized over the term of the new credit facilities. accounts receivable securitization in october 2004, flowserve us inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, and flowserve receivables corporation ( frc ), a wholly owned subsidiary of flowserve us inc., entered into a receivables purchase agreement ( rpa ) with two third party financial institutions whereby frc could obtain up to $75 million in financing on a revolving basis by securitizing certain u.s.-based trade receivables. to obtain financing, flowserve us inc. transferred eligible receivables to frc, which was formed solely for this accounts receivable securitization program. pursuant to the rpa, frc then sold undivided purchaser interests in these receivables to the third party financial institutions. flowserve us inc. continued to service the receivables for a servicing fee of 0.5% of the average net receivable balance. no servicing liability was recognized at december 31, 2004 because the amount was immaterial due to the short term average collection period of the securitized receivables. frc has no recourse against flowserve us inc. for failure of the debtors to pay when due. as of december 31, 2004, frc had secured $60 million in financing under the program. the proceeds were used to repay $16 million and $44 million of tranche a and tranche c bank term loans, respectively, outstanding under our 2000 credit facilities. at the time the purchaser interests were sold, $48.7 million of the receivables transferred to frc were removed from frc financial statements, and frc further recorded short-term debt of $11.3 million. borrowings under the rpa in excess of $11.3 million are excluded from our debt balance as presented in the consolidated balance sheets, but included for purposes of covenant calculations under the 2000 credit facilities. on october 31, 2005, we terminated the rpa. in connection with this, we borrowed approximately $48 million under our new credit facilities and repurchased outstanding receivable interests from the third 48 table of contents party financial institutions. see additional discussion of our accounts receivable securitization program in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. accounts receivable factoring through our european subsidiaries, we engage in non-recourse factoring of certain accounts receivable. the various agreements have different terms, including options for renewal and mutual termination clauses. under our 2000 credit facilities, such factoring was generally limited to $50 million, based on due date of the factored receivables. the limit on factoring was raised to $75 million under the new credit facilities entered into in august 2005. see additional discussion of our accounts receivable factoring program in note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. debt covenants and other matters our 2000 credit facilities that have now been refinanced, the letter of credit facility guaranteeing our obligations under the eib credit facility, and the agreements governing our domestic receivables program each required us to deliver to creditors thereunder our audited annual consolidated financial statements within a specified number of days following the end of each fiscal year. in addition, the indentures governing our 12.25% senior subordinated notes required us to timely file with the sec our annual and quarterly reports. as a result of the 2004 restatement and the new obligations regarding internal controls attestation under section 404, we did not timely issue our financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2004 and the quarterly periods ended june 30, 2004, september 30, 2004, march 31, 2005, june 30, 2005 and september 30, 2005, and were unable to timely file with the sec our annual report on form 10-k and quarterly reports on form 10-q for such periods. prior to the refinancing of our 2000 credit facilities and the replacement of the standby letter of credit facility, we obtained waivers thereunder extending the deadline for the delivery of our financial statements to the lenders under our 2000 credit facilities and the letter of credit facility guaranteeing the eib credit facility and, as a result of such waivers, were not in default due to the delay in the delivery of our financial statements. we did not seek or obtain a waiver under the indentures governing our 12.25% senior subordinated notes with respect to our inability to timely file with the sec the required reports and, prior to the refinancing of our 12.25% senior subordinated notes, were in default thereunder. however, our debt is properly classified as non-current in our balance sheet as we have demonstrated our ability and intent to obtain new long-term credit facilities in august 2005. we have determined, utilizing our restated financial information, that on multiple occasions we did not comply with some of the financial covenants in our 2000 credit facilities, which are no longer in effect. we believe that we could have undertaken readily available actions to maintain compliance or obtained a waiver or amendment to the 2000 credit facilities had the new restated results then been known. we have complied with all other non-financial covenants under our 2000 credit facilities. we believe that these covenant violations have no impact on our new credit facilities and that the amounts outstanding under the 2000 credit facilities are properly classified in our consolidated balance sheet. our new credit facilities contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. under the leverage covenant, the maximum permitted leverage ratio steps down beginning with the fourth quarter of 2006, with a further step-down beginning with the fourth quarter of 2007. under the interest coverage covenant, the minimum required interest coverage ratio steps up beginning with the fourth quarter of 2006, with a further step-up beginning with the fourth quarter of 2007. compliance with these financial covenants under our new credit facilities is tested quarterly, and we have complied with the financial covenants as of september 30, 2005. delivery of the december 31, 2004 audited consolidated financial statements is required by december 31, 2005 and delivery of the december 31, 2005 audited financial statements by may 30, 2006. we have received a waiver from our lenders to deliver the december 31, 2004 audited financial statements by february 28, 2006. further, we are required to furnish within 50 days of the end of each of the first three quarters of each year our consolidated balance sheet, and related statements of operations, shareholders equity and cash flows. 49 table of contents our new credit facilities also contain covenants restricting our and our subsidiaries ability to dispose of assets, merge, pay dividends, repurchase or redeem capital stock and indebtedness, incur indebtedness and guarantees, create liens, enter into agreements with negative pledge clauses, make certain investments or acquisitions, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, enter into transactions with affiliates, make capital expenditures, engage in any business activity other than our existing business or any business activities reasonably incidental thereto. with the waiver for delivery of the december 31, 2004 audited financial statements, we are currently in compliance with all debt covenants under the new credit facilities. common stock offerings during 2002, we financed the acquisition of ifc and associated transaction costs with a combination of bank financing and net proceeds of approximately $276 million received from the issuance of 9.2 million shares of common stock during april 2002. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2004: payments due by period within beyond 1 year(3) 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years total (amounts in millions) long-term debt(1)(2) $ 43.6 $ 99.2 $ 198.1 $ 359.5 $ 700.4 capital lease obligations 0.5 0.5 0.4 1.4 operating leases 19.4 24.9 13.9 16.2 74.4 purchase obligations: inventory 84.2 3.0 0.1 87.3 non-inventory 5.2 0.5 0.4 0.2 6.3 (1) after giving effect to the refinancing, the termination of our accounts receivable securitization agreement, an optional prepayment of approximately $20 million that we made in december 2005, and a mandatory repayment of $10.9 million that we made in january 2006 using the net proceeds from the sale of gsg, our scheduled long-term debt obligations are $1.5 million due within one year, $5.7 million due within two to three years, $11.4 million due within four to five years, and $635.4 million due beyond five years. (2) interest payments on scheduled long-term debt obligations under our new credit facilities are estimated to be $55.0 million due within one year, $86.4 million due within two to three years, $84.4 million due within four to five years, and $92.4 million due beyond five years. these estimates are based on fixed or synthetically fixed rate debt and floating rate debt assuming a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2005. (3) we have no minimum pension funding requirements in 2005, but we made voluntary contributions to our u.s. pension plan of approximately $43 million in 2005. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2004: commitment expiration by period within beyond 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years 5 years total (amounts in millions) standby letters of credit/bank guarantees $ 120.7 $ 71.2 $ 7.8 $ 0.5 $ 200.2 surety bonds 44.8 21.2 66.0 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. 50 table of contents pension and postretirement benefits obligations our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations required by sfas no. 87, employers accounting for pensions, and sfas no. 106, employers accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions. we consider accounting for retirement plans critical because management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term return on plan assets, retirement, turnover, health care cost trend rates and mortality rates. depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding. plan description we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time and part-time employees. the defined benefit pension plan in the u.s. is the flowserve corporation pension plan and the defined contribution plan is the flowserve corporation retirement savings plan. approximately 64% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and 55% of benefit obligations are related to the u.s. plan as of december 31, 2004. the assets for the u.s. plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to total plans (i.e., the u.s. plan together with international plans). benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on years of credited service and on participants compensation. assets under our defined benefit plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities. at december 31, 2004, the fair market value of plan assets for our defined benefit plans increased to $276.3 million from $233.0 million at december 31, 2003. assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan non-u.s. plans asset category 2004 2003 2004 2003(1) equity securities 64% 65% 45% 52% debt securities 31% 35% 42% 48% other 5% 13% (1) non-u.s. plans in 2003 were adjusted to reflect certain non-u.s. pension plans that were not actuarially determined under gaap in prior years. the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans was $488.7 million and $420.3 million as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement health care plan covering most current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. this plan provides for medical and dental benefits and is administered through insurance companies. we fund the plan as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plan are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement health care plan was $88.7 million and $92.2 million as of december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. accrual accounting and significant assumptions consistent with the requirements of sfas no. 87, we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of 51 table of contents accounting for pension benefits necessarily requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase, and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension benefits, such as discount rate, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, life expectancy of participants and assumed rate of wage increases, and determine such assumptions on december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. depending on the assumptions used, the pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. the assumed discount rate used for determining future pension obligations is based on indices of aa-rated corporate bonds, except for two foreign locations which use government bonds. the assumed rate of compensation increase used for determining future pension obligations reflects an estimate of the change in actual future compensation levels due to general price levels, productivity, seniority and other factors. in 2004, net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in income from continuing operations was $22.9 million compared to $20.0 million in 2003 and $14.2 million in 2002. the postretirement benefit expense for the postretirement health care plan was $3.8 million in 2004 compared to $4.1 million in 2003 and $5.5 million in 2002. the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans for the year ended december 31, 2004: u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: discount rate 5.75 % 5.12 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.50 % 3.04 % weighted average assumptions used to determine net cost: long-term rate of return on assets 8.75 % 6.86 % discount rate 6.25 % 5.51 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.50 % 3.00 % the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: increase decrease of 0.5% of 0.5% (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on pension expense $ (0.7 ) $ 0.7 effect on projected benefit obligation (9.3 ) 10.0 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on pension expense $ (0.5 ) $ 0.8 effect on projected benefit obligation (14.6 ) 15.6 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense $ (0.2 ) $ 0.2 effect on projected benefit obligation (3.6 ) 3.7 52 table of contents effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: increase decrease of 0.5% of 0.5% (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on pension expense $ (1.0 ) $ 1.0 effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on pension expense $ (0.3 ) $ 0.3 effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense n/a n/a effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a as discussed below, gaap provides that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2004, we lowered our assumed discount rate for u.s. plan from 6.25% to 5.75% and our average rate for non-u.s. plans from 5.5% to 5.1%. we maintained our average assumed rate of compensation increase at 4.5% and 3.0% for u.s. and non-u.s. plans, respectively. the reduction in the discount rate had the effect of increasing the present value of benefit obligations and, accordingly, will have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2005. following many years of strong performance, the global equity market fell sharply in 2000 through 2002 (e.g., the p 500 declined by a cumulative 37.6%). this was reversed in 2003 through 2004 (e.g., the p 500 rose by a cumulative 42.7%). we reduced the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets from 8.75% in 2004 to 8.25% for 2005. this revision will have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2005. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $4.5 million higher in 2005 than the $22.9 million in 2004, reflecting, among other things, the decrease in the assumed discount rate. we expect the 2005 expense for the postretirement health care plan to be $1.0 million. we have used the same assumed discount rates of 5.75% and 6.25% at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, in calculating our cost of pension benefits and our cost of other postretirement benefits for u.s. plans. u.s. health care costs for the retiree population are assumed to increase 7.0% in 2005 and then trend down to an expected increase of 5.0% per year by 2007. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. on december 8, 2003, president bush signed into law the medicare prescription drug, improvement and modernization act of 2003 (the medicare act ). the effects of the medicare act are reflected in 2004 net periodic postretirement benefit cost (a reduction of $0.7 million) and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at december 31, 2004 (a reduction of $4.5 million). delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses at december 31, 2004 and 2003, unrecognized net actuarial losses for our defined benefit plans were $132.2 million and $113.8 million, respectively, based on the fair market value of plan assets. these unrecognized net actuarial losses reflect in large part the steady reduction of the weighted-average discount rate over the years. sfas no. 87 provides for delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses, including amounts arising from changes in the estimated plan benefit obligations due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the actual and expected returns on plan assets, and other assumption changes. 53 table of contents sfas no. 87 requires that unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss, determined based on the market-related value of plan assets (which differs from fair market value and is a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over five years), be amortized in pension expense for the year to the extent that such unrecognized net actuarial loss or gain exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. these net gains and losses are recognized as pension expense prospectively over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the plans to the extent that they are not offset by losses and gains in subsequent years. for example at december 31, 2004, the unrecognized net actuarial loss for the u.s. plan subject to amortized recognition, determined based on the market-related value of plan assets, was $89.8 million. this amount exceeded 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets by $62.2 million. unless offset by future unrecognized gains from higher discount rates or higher than expected returns on plan assets, amortization of this unrecognized loss is expected to increase pension expense for each of the following 13 years by approximately $5 million per year, which amount is reflected in the higher expense expected in 2005. in the event the fair market value of pension plan assets of a particular plan is less than the accumulated benefit obligation for such plan at year-end, gaap may require an additional minimum liability, and in such circumstances, a reduction in shareholders equity or an establishment of an intangible asset. at december 31, 2004, the fair market value of our defined benefit pension plan assets was $276.3 million and the related accumulated benefit obligation was $473.6 million. we recognized an additional minimum liability of $97.4 million at december 31, 2004, which was offset by a $62.1 million charge in other comprehensive income included in stockholders equity, a $34.6 million deferred tax asset, and a $0.7 million reduction in the intangible asset. at december 31, 2003, the fair market value of our defined benefit pension plan assets was $233.0 million and the related accumulated benefit obligation was $410.5 million. we recognized an additional minimum liability of $84.2 million at december 31, 2003, which was offset by a $53.9 million charge in other comprehensive income included in shareholders equity, a $29.5 million deferred tax asset, and $0.8 million reduction in the intangible asset. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $23.4 million, $34.7 million, and $9.1 million to our defined benefit plans in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. in 2005, we contributed approximately $43 million to our qualified u.s. pension plan, and we estimate contributing approximately $9 million to our non-u.s. pension plans. for further discussions on retirement benefits, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. our critical accounting policies and estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include timing and amount of revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory costing and related fair value allowances, deferred tax asset realization, restructuring charges and expected payments reflected in related reserves, legal and environmental claims estimates, warranty provisions, pension and postretirement benefits obligations and the fair value of indefinite-lived assets (including goodwill) and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed quarterly by management with oversight by our disclosure control committee, an internal committee comprised of members of senior management, and the disclosure control committee presents its views to the audit committee of our board of directors. because 54 table of contents of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for products and short-term contracts are recognized based on the shipping terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions required, which is generally the point of title transfer. if the customer order requires formal acceptance, revenue is not recognized until formal acceptance has been received. for contracts containing multiple products, each having separable value, we generally recognize revenue on individual product shipments equal to the shipped products pro rata share of the contract fair value upon the fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions of the individual product shipment. for multiple deliverables under a single contract or arrangement, such as product delivery and installation, we separate the fair value of the product from the installation and recognize revenue on each element independently upon fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. our estimates mainly relate to the fair value determination of the underlying services or products. revenue on service contracts is recognized after the services have been rendered and accepted by the customer. all revenue for products, short-term projects and service contracts require, prior to recognition, the persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectibility. revenue for long-term large contracts (which we define as longer than nine-months in duration, with contract values over $750,000 and progress billings from the customer) are recorded on the percentage of completion method calculated on a cost-to -cost basis, in instances where reliable cost estimates exist. percentage of completion revenue represents less than 5% of our consolidated revenues for each year presented, and is most prevalent in fpd. the percentage of completion method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress, and in doing so we make judgments to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in scheduled delivery and the cost of materials, labor costs and productivity, the impact of change orders, potential warranty liabilities and liquidated damage claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. changes in total estimated contract costs and resultant contract losses, if any, are recognized in the period in which they are determined. revenue generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for five years. fixed fee service and repair contracts represent less than 5% of our consolidated revenue for each year presented, and are most prevalent in fsd. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet schedule or agreed upon delivery dates can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payments of such costs are likely, we perform project profitability analysis using such costs to reduce revenues realizable, which could cause estimated project costs to exceed projected revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in instances where the reduced revenues still exceed costs, the incurrence of the costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. 55 table of contents accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based on estimates of the amount of uncollectible accounts receivable. the amount of the allowance is determined principally based upon the aging of the receivable, as well as on customer credit history, significant customer disputes, outstanding industry and market segment information, economic trends and conditions, credit reports and customer financial condition. we consider our collection history and specifically known uncollectible accounts in establishing our allowance. customer credit issues, customer bankruptcies, general economic conditions or other matters largely beyond our control can affect the collectibility of our accounts receivable. if our customers financial conditions worsened or if customer disputes increased beyond levels currently provided for, we might be required to recognize additional allowances or incur additional write-offs, which would adversely impact our results of operation, cash flows and financial position. our credit risk may be mitigated by our large number of customers across many different geographic regions. for all of 2003 and most of 2004, we had a credit insurance policy for many of our european subsidiaries, whereby we were entitled to remuneration from the third party insurer, net of deductible, in instances where customers covered by this policy were unable to pay. we cancelled this policy in late 2004 due to minimal claims sought. inventories and related reserves inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. we primarily determine cost for the majority of our u.s. inventories by the last-in, first-out method and for other inventories by the first-in, first-out method. we estimate the market value of our inventory based on an assessment of recent or committed sales prices, and provide for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical usage, estimated future demand and related pricing. in determining excess quantities, we consider recent sales activity, related margins and market positioning of our products. these estimates are generally not subject to significant volatility, due to the long life cycles of our product lines, except for product rationalizations generally associated with acquisition integration programs. however, factors beyond our control, such as demand levels, technological advances and pricing competition, could change from period to period. if such factors had an adverse effect on us, we might be required to reduce the value of our inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. deferred tax asset valuation we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards, net operating and capital loss carryforwards for u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. tax reserves the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for certain positions that are subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest as deemed appropriate. we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, and our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the 56 table of contents extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. restructuring and integration expense restructuring and integration expenses have generally been recognized in conjunction with our acquisitions. such expenses reflect many estimates including costs pertaining to employee severance payments, fulfillment of outstanding contractual obligations and other matters associated with exiting a facility. restructuring costs related to facilities and employees of acquired businesses generally become a component of goodwill, whereas non-acquisition related restructuring costs are recorded as restructuring expense in the consolidated statements of operations. integration costs are recognized as a reduction to the results of operations as a component of current earnings. reserves created for each restructuring plan are assessed quarterly and adjusted for any revisions of cost estimates or other changes in planned restructuring activities. prior to january 1, 2003, we recognized restructuring reserves when the related restructuring plans had been both approved and communicated to affected employees. in conjunction with adopting sfas no. 146, accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities, on january 1, 2003, we now record restructuring reserves as the related liability is incurred. legal and environmental accruals the costs relating to legal and environmental liabilities are estimated and liabilities recorded when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. we have a formal process for assessing the facts and recording any required reserves on a case-by-case basis. assessments of legal and environmental reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. warranty accruals warranty obligations are based upon product failure rates, materials usage and service delivery costs, an analysis of all identified or expected claims and an estimate of the cost to resolve such claims. the estimates of expected claims are generally a factor of historical claims and known product issues. warranty obligations based on these factors are adjusted based on historical sales trends for the preceding 24 months. changes in claim rates, differences between actual and expected warranty costs, sales trends, and facility rationalization activities could impact warranty obligation estimates, which might have adverse effects to our consolidated results of operations and financial position. pension and postretirement benefits obligations determination of the value of our pension and postretirement benefits liabilities is based on actuarial valuations. inherent in these valuations are key assumptions which are assessed annually in the fourth quarter and which include: discount rates; expected return on plan assets for funded plans; life expectancy of participants; assumed rate of wage increases; and assumed rate of health care cost increases. we evaluate, in conjunction with our professional advisors, prevailing market conditions in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation rates. specifically for our u.s. plan, we assess such market factors as changes in the cash balance interest crediting 57 table of contents rate, borrowing rates for investment grade corporate and industrial companies, assumptions used by fortune 500 companies, our actual wage increases in recent years, expected rates of return for each targeted asset class held by the plans and return premiums generated by active investment management. for the non-u.s. plans we perform similar analyses, but also factor in local laws and requirements. we also compare our significant assumptions with our peers and discuss our key assumptions, prior to their incorporation into actuarial calculations, with the finance committee of our board of directors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets our business acquisitions typically generate goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect prospective amortization expense and possible impairment expense we might incur. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. impairment losses for goodwill are recognized whenever the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. impairment losses for intangibles are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units, which correlate to our operating segments. the test of indefinite-lived intangibles involves significant judgment in estimating projections of future sales levels. in calculating the fair value of the reporting units using the present value of expected future cash flows, we rely on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market data used in discounting those cash flows. inherent uncertainties exist in determining and applying such factors. the net realizable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, is reviewed periodically, when indicators of potential impairments are present, based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing methodologies similar to that for goodwill and indefinite-lived assets. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. summary overview of 2005 we experienced strengthening in our 2005 markets and we remain optimistic about our markets and our performance over the long-term, considering that the economic opportunities for many of our geographic and core industrial markets have improved in 2005 however, these increases will be offset by additional professional fees related to closing our 2004 audit and other costs as discussed below. as a result of these factors, our revenues are expected to increase from 2004, excluding currency fluctuations. for additional discussion on our markets, see the business overview section of this management discussion and analysis. as noted below our bookings have increased 13.9% for the year ending december 31, 2005 as compared to the same period in 2004. however, as a booking represents a contract that can be modified or canceled, there is no guarantee that the increase in bookings will result in the same increase in revenues. 58 table of contents percentage increase bookings 2004 2005 (decrease) (cumulative amounts in millions) first quarter $ 662.8 $ 712.6 7.5% second quarter 1,333.0 1,435.8 7.7% third quarter 1,997.7 2,230.1 11.6% fourth quarter 2,657.4 3,026.1 13.9% we expect our operating income to increase in 2005 as compared with 2004. our operating income in 2005 will benefit from a number of operational improvement programs, including procurement and the cip initiative, as well as other operational improvements in several of our facilities. in addition, continuation of our end user strategy, selective contract bidding and an increase in our quick turnaround products, which historically are more profitable, should also positively contribute to our operating income in 2005. however, a number of significant costs and certain other expenses will negatively impact our operating income in 2005. these include increased professional fees related to the completion of the 2004 restatement and 2004 audit, section 404 assessment, irs tax audit, senior executive transition costs, loss associated with the refinancing of our debt, non-cash expenses related to modifications of our stock plans and higher wage and benefit costs due to inflation. at december 31, 2004, 69% of our debt was fixed rate debt. following the refinancing of the 2000 credit facilities and the 12.25% senior subordinated notes in august 2005, 100% of our debt carried a floating rate of interest. as of december 31, 2005 we had $410 million of derivative contracts to convert a portion of floating interest rates to fixed interest rates to reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility. as a result of our refinancing and lower levels of debt in 2005, we expect our interest expense will be lower in 2005 as compared to 2004. however, this decrease will be more than offset by losses on debt extinguishment incurred in connection with the refinancing. we expect our effective tax rate to be significantly lower in 2005 than in 2004 due to lower levels of dividend repatriation. the 2005 effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings between our domestic and international locations, our tax planning strategies and our ability to utilize foreign tax credits and other factors. for a discussion of the factors impacting our 2004 effective tax rate of 66.2%, see the results of operations section of this management discussion and analysis. assuming these factors occurred as we have described, we expect that net earnings and net earnings per share to improve in 2005. however, because our year-end close procedures are not yet completed, our actual results could differ from those described above. we generated sufficient cash from operations to fund our business, capital expenditures, pension plan contribution obligations and costs of compliance, and we continue to reduce debt levels. we expect to improve working capital utilization by reducing dso and increasing inventory turns. however, the amount of cash generated from working capital could be dependent on the level of revenues and other factors. capital expenditures in 2005 are primarily focused on new product development, new production and service facilities, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and should approximate $45 million to $50 million. while current pension regulations allow us significant latitude in the amount of contributions, we contributed approximately $43 million to our qualified u.s. pension plan in 2005. we made scheduled repayments and optional prepayments under the new credit facilities in 2005 of $1.5 million and approximately $20 million, respectively. we expect to comply with our leverage and interest coverage financial covenants under our new credit facilities in 2005. see the liquidity and capital resources section of this management discussion and analysis for further discussion of our debt covenants. 59 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risks associated with financial instruments we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we enter into forward contracts to hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the facility engaging in the transaction. our risk management and derivatives policy specifies the conditions under which we may enter into derivative contracts. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, we had approximately $139 million and $75 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding forward contracts with third parties. at december 31, 2004, the maximum length of any forward contract currently in place was 17 months. certain of our forward contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts at december 31, 2004 and 2003 was an asset of $3.4 million and $4.7 million, respectively. unrealized gains (losses) from the changes in the fair value of these forward contracts of $(2.5) million, $1.6 million and $2.9 million, net of tax, for the years ended december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are included in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. the fair value of outstanding forward contracts qualifying for hedge accounting was a liability of $2.3 million at both december 31, 2004 and 2003. unrealized gains (losses) from the changes in the fair value of qualifying forward contracts and the associated underlying exposures of $(0.2) million, $0.5 million, and $24,000 net of tax, as of december 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss in the consolidated statements of shareholders equity. also as part of our risk management program, we enter into interest rate swap agreements to hedge exposure to floating interest rates on certain portions of our debt. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, we had $125.0 million and $215.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties. at december 31, 2004, the maximum length of any interest rate contract currently in place was approximately two years. at december 31, 2004 and 2003, the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements was a liability of $3.4 million and $7.6 million, respectively. during 2004, we entered into a compound derivative contract to hedge the exposure to both currency translation and interest rate risks associated with our eib loan. the notional amount of the derivative was $85 million, and it served to convert floating rate interest rate risk to a fixed rate, as well as u.s. dollar currency risk to euros. the derivative matures in 2011. at december 31, 2004, the fair value of this derivative was a liability of $15.9 million. this derivative contract did not qualify for hedge accounting. the unrealized loss on the derivative and the foreign translation gain on the underlying loan aggregate to a net loss of $5.1 million, which is included in other expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of operations. we are exposed to risk from credit-related losses resulting from nonperformance by counterparties to our financial instruments. we perform credit evaluations of our counterparties under forward contracts and interest rate swap agreements and expect all counterparties to meet their obligations. we have not experienced credit losses from our counterparties. additionally, we are exposed to risk of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting. our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our 2000 credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2004, after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had approximately $216 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 4.9%. a hypothetical change of 100-basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by approximately $2.2 million for 2004. we employ a foreign currency hedging strategy to minimize potential losses in earnings or cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. these strategies also minimize potential gains from favorable exchange rate movements. foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than an entity functional 60 table of contents currency and from foreign-denominated revenues and profits translated back into u.s. dollars. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2004, a 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations by $9.1 million. an analysis of the estimated impact by currency follows: impact on net currency earnings (amounts in millions) euro $ 3.5 singapore dollar 1.0 swiss franc 0.8 indian rupee 0.7 british pound 0.5 canadian dollar 0.5 mexican peso 0.4 venezuelan bolivar 0.4 australian dollar 0.3 argentinean peso 0.2 brazilian real 0.1 swedish krona 0.1 other 0.6 total $ 9.1 hedging related transactions, recorded to other comprehensive income (expense), net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: other comprehensive income (expense) 2004 2003 2002 (as restated) (as restated) (amounts in thousands) reclassification to earnings for settlements during the year: forward contracts $ (458 ) $ (24 ) $ (106 ) interest rate swap agreements 2,689 3,014 4,336 change in fair value: forward contracts (190 ) 458 24 interest rate swap agreements (162 ) (1,574 ) (6,603 ) year ended december 31 $ 1,879 $ 1,874 $ (2,349 ) the following amounts, net of deferred taxes, represent the expected recognition into earnings for hedging contracts based on their fair values at december 31, 2004: forward interest rate contracts swaps total (amounts in millions) 2005 $ (0.1 ) $ (1.3 ) $ (1.4 ) 2006 (0.1 ) (0.9 ) $ (1.0 ) total $ (0.2 ) $ (2.2 ) $ (2.4 ) we incurred foreign currency translation gains of $23.2 million, $55.4 million and $37.1 million, in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. these currency gains primarily reflect strengthening of the euro versus the u.s. dollar. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis. in connection with our 2005 assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of sarbanes-oxley, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control. we have taken measures to strengthen our internal control in response to the previously identified material weaknesses, including by implementing strengthened control procedures for information technology infrastructure, enhancing company-level monitoring controls processes and expanding our internal audit and corporate compliance functions, and engaged outside consultants to assist us in our efforts. for a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weaknesses and of the steps that we have taken to remediate these and previously identified material weaknesses, see item 9a. controls and procedures management report on internal control over financial reporting. material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. while we have taken measures to strengthen our internal control in response to the previously identified material weaknesses, including by implementing strengthened control procedures for information technology infrastructure, enhancing company-level monitoring controls processes and expanding our internal audit and corporate compliance functions, and engaged outside consultants to assist us in our efforts, additional work remains to be done to address the identified material weaknesses. if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into our controls system, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec and the nyse, including a delisting from the nyse, securities litigation, events of default under our new credit facilities, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the valuation of our common stock. furthermore, there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. we could face additional litigation exposure and a greater likelihood of an sec enforcement or nyse regulatory action if further restatements were to occur or other accounting-related problems emerge. in addition, any future restatements or other accounting-related problems may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we fail to comply with the requirements of section 404 of sarbanes-oxley, our business prospects and stock valuation could be adversely affected. section 404 of sarbanes-oxley of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. this legislation is relatively new, and neither companies nor accounting firms have significant experience in complying with its requirements. we expended significant resources to comply with our obligations under section 404 with respect to 2004 and 2005. if we are unable to comply with our obligations under section 404 in the future or experience delays in future reports of our management and outside auditors on our internal control over financial reporting, or if we fail to respond timely to any changes in the section 404 requirements, we may be unable to timely file with the sec our annual or periodic reports and may be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec and the nyse, including delisting from the nyse, securities litigation, events of default under our new credit 11 table of contents facilities, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the valuation of our common stock. we are currently subject to securities class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of putative class action lawsuits have been filed against us, certain of our former officers, our independent auditors and the lead underwriters of our most recent public stock offerings, alleging securities laws violations. we believe that these lawsuits, which have been consolidated, are without merit and are vigorously defending them and have notified our applicable insurers. we cannot, however, determine with certainty the outcome or resolution of these claims or the timing for their resolution. the consolidated securities case is currently set for trial on march 27, 2007. in addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. if the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter. the ongoing sec and foreign government investigation regarding our participation in the united nations oil-for-food program could materially adversely affect our company. on february 7, 2006, we received a subpoena from the sec regarding goods and services that certain foreign subsidiaries delivered to iraq from 1996 through 2003 during the united nations oil-for-food program. this investigation includes a review of whether any inappropriate payments were made to iraqi officials in violation of the foreign corrupt practices act. the investigation includes periods prior to, as well as subsequent to our acquisition of the foreign operations involved in the investigation. we may be subject to liabilities if violations are found regardless of whether they relate to periods before or subsequent to our acquisition. in addition, one of our foreign subsidiary operations is cooperating with a foreign governmental investigation of that site involvement in the united nations oil-for-food program. this cooperation has included responding to an investigative trip by foreign authorities to the foreign subsidiary site, providing relevant documentation to these authorities and answering their questions. we are unable to predict how or if the foreign authorities will pursue this matter in the future. we believe that both the sec and this foreign authority are investigating other companies from their actions arising from the oil-for-food program. we are in the process of reviewing and responding to the sec subpoena and assessing the implications of the foreign investigation, including the continuation of a thorough internal investigation. our investigation is in the early stages and has included and will include a detailed review of contracts with the iraqi government during the period in question and certain payments associated therewith. additionally, we have and will continue to conduct interviews with employees with knowledge of the contracts and payments in question. we are in the early phases of our internal investigation and as a result are unable to make any definitive determination whether any inappropriate payments were made and accordingly are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this matter. we will continue to fully cooperate in both the sec and the foreign investigations. both investigations are in progress but, at this point, are incomplete. accordingly, if the sec and/or the foreign authorities take enforcement action with regard to these investigations, we may be required to pay fines, consent to injunctions against future conduct or suffer other penalties which could potentially materially impact our business financial statements and cash flows. potential noncompliance with u.s. export control laws could materially adversely affect our business. we have notified applicable u.s. governmental authorities of our plans to investigate, analyze and, if applicable, disclose past potential violations of the u.s. export control laws through, in general, the export of products, services and technologies without the licenses possibly required by such authorities. if and to the extent 12 table of contents violations are identified, confirmed and so disclosed, we could be subject to substantial fines and other penalties affecting our ability to do business outside the united states. the internal revenue service ( irs ) is auditing our tax returns, and a negative outcome of the audit would require us to make additional tax payments that may be material. we have recently concluded an irs audit of our u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1999 through 2001. based on its audit work, the irs has issued proposed adjustments to increase taxable income during 1999 through 2001 by $12.8 million, and to deny foreign tax credits of $2.4 million in the aggregate. the tax liability resulting from these proposed adjustments will be offset with foreign tax credit carryovers and other refund claims, and therefore should not result in a material future cash payment, pending final review by the joint committee on taxation. we anticipate this review will be completed by december 31, 2006. the effect of the adjustments to current and deferred taxes has been reflected in previously filed financial statements. during 2006, the irs will commence an audit of our u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 2002 through 2004. while we expect that the upcoming irs audit will be similar in scope to the recently completed examination, the upcoming audit may be broader. furthermore, the preliminary results from the audit of 1999 through 2001 are not indicative of the future result of the audit of 2002 through 2004. the audit of 2002 through 2004 may result in additional tax payments by us, the amount of which may be material, but will not be known until that irs audit is finalized. in the course of the tax audit for the years 1999 through 2001, we have identified record keeping and other material internal control weaknesses, which caused us to incur significant expense to substantiate our tax return items and address information and document requests made by the irs. we expect to incur similar expenses in future periods with respect to the upcoming irs audit of the years 2002 through 2004. due to the record keeping issues referred to above, the irs has issued a notice of inadequate records for the years 1999 through 2001 and may issue a similar notice for the years 2002 through 2004. while the irs has agreed not to assess penalties for inadequacy of records with respect to the years 1999 through 2001, no assurances can be made that the irs will not seek to assess such penalties or other types of penalties with respect to the years 2002 through 2004. such penalties could result in a material impact to the consolidated results of operations. additionally, the record keeping issues noted above may result in future u.s. state and local tax assessments of tax, penalties and interest which could have a material impact to the consolidated results of operations. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses, and other deductible temporary differences which are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that $239 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. we operate and manage our business on a number of different computer systems, including several aging enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems that rely on manual processes, which could adversely affect our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we operate and manage our business on a number of different computer systems, including disparate legacy systems inherited from our predecessors. some of our computer systems, as well as some of our computer hardware, are aging and contain inefficient processes. for example, several of our older erp systems rely on manual processes, which are generally labor intensive and increase the risk of error. furthermore, as discussed below under item 9a. controls and procedures , as of the end of 2005, we did not maintain adequate information technology 13 table of contents general controls, as our information technology general controls supporting restricted access to financial applications, programs and data. unless we are able to enhance our computer systems generally and information technology general controls specifically, our ability to identify, capture and communicate pertinent information may be compromised, which in turn may compromise our ability to timely and accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing or service facilities in 31 countries and sell to customers in over 70 countries, in addition to the united states. moreover, we outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates; instability in a specific country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets and the middle east; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest and a two-month nation-wide work stoppage in venezuela in 2002 negatively impacted demand for our products from customers in that country and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that were affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, the military conflict in the middle east softened the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services in that region, notwithstanding the historically high prices for oil. additionally we are investigating or have investigated certain allegations regarding foreign management engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our code of business conduct which could have inappropriately benefited them at company expense. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, as a significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollar. the primary foreign currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, canadian dollar, mexican peso, japanese yen, singapore dollar, brazilian real, australian dollar, argentinean peso and venezuelan bolivar. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the argentinean peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past. although we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the u.s. customs service, the bureau of industry and security, various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing 14 table of contents regulations and various programs administered by the united nations. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we have notified applicable u.s. governmental authorities of our plans to conduct a voluntary thorough audit of our compliance with the u.s. export control laws and, if applicable, make a voluntary self-disclosure of any potential violations identified, as applicable. if violations are identified, then such disclosure could result in substantial fines and other penalties. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we may be unable to deliver our backlog on time which could affect our future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2005, backlog reached $994.1 million, a record level for the company. in 2006, our bookings and backlog have continued to increase through, at least march 31, 2006. our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects, and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships, could negatively impact our financial performance, and potentially cause adverse changes in the market price of our outstanding common stock. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by the cyclical nature of their markets and their liquidity. demand for most of our products depends on the level of new capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers. the levels of capital expenditures by our customers depend, in turn, on the general economic conditions and conditions in their industry, as well as on their liquidity. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly general industrial companies, chemical companies and oil refineries, are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, demand for our products and services from our general industrial customers, such as steel and pulp and paper manufacturers, was negatively impacted by the u.s. recession in the early part of this decade. similarly, in response to high oil and natural gas prices and a weak demand for their products due to the soft economy, during the past several years our chemical customers reduced their spending on capital investments and operated their facilities at lower levels, reducing demand for our products and services. some of our customers may delay capital maintenance even during favorable conditions in their markets. for example, while high oil prices generally spur demand for our products and services in upstream petroleum markets, they often reduce demand for our products and services from oil refineries, as refiners seek to take advantage of favorable margins by operating at high levels of capacity utilization and deferring maintenance. 15 table of contents the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry. for example, despite high natural gas prices in 2003, there was little additional investment or maintenance activity by our gas customers, many of which have experienced liquidity constraints as a result of financial difficulties related to their former energy trading activities. recently, amid increasing demand for crude and its derivatives and the tight market conditions, oil refineries have been scheduling maintenance activities and upgrading equipment to meet environmental regulations. in addition, chemical companies had been able to invest and maintain their equipment as they pass through the price increases to the end user. this recent evidence suggests a potential change in how the customer response to market conditions may impact our business activities. the diminished demand for our products and services could lead to excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated erosion of average selling prices in our industry, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, including profit margins, financial condition and cash flows. as we expand our customer alliance programs, an increasing portion of our revenues will be on a fixed-fee basis, subjecting us to the risks associated with cost overruns. as part of our customer alliance programs, we enter into maintenance agreements that are fixed-fee arrangements. under these agreements, we provide maintenance services, including replacement parts and repair services, at a specified fixed fee and, accordingly, bear the risk of cost overruns. while we conduct a detailed analysis of the customers equipment prior to entering into fixed-fee maintenance agreements and benefit from our extensive experience in the flow control industry, our failure to estimate accurately the anticipated equipment failures and maintenance costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including profit margins, financial condition and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products are fragmented and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability, with price competition tending to be more significant for sales to original equipment manufacturers. some of our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. to remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to extensive regulation under environmental laws. these laws can impose substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes that may limit production. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in most of our manufacturing and foundry operations. many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties at four superfund sites. 16 table of contents we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. all such products were used as self-contained components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any emission of ambient asbestos-containing fiber during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate, and unfavorable rulings, judgments and/or settlement terms could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2005, we had approximately 13,000 employees, approximately half of whom were located in the united states. of our u.s. employees, approximately 7% are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. although we believe that our relations with our employees are good and we have not experienced any recent strikes or work stoppages, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached, and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. furthermore, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our sales, results of operations and cash flows. our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain senior executives and other key personnel. during 2004 and 2005, we appointed a new chief executive officer, chief financial officer, corporate treasurer, controller and chief accounting officer, chief compliance officer, chief information officer, vice president of tax and a vice president of human resources, and we created and staffed new positions responsible for accounting policy and procedures, financial reporting, tax compliance and internal audit. our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our newly appointed and existing senior management and other key personnel. the loss of the services of our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or other key personnel could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy. to promote continuity of senior management, in march 2005 our board of directors approved a transitional executive security 17 table of contents plan, which provides financial incentives to key management personnel to remain employed by us for the near term. no assurances can be made, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to retain key members of our senior management. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have increased, with the prices for energy currently exceeding historical averages. we also strive to offset our increased costs through continuous improvement program ( cip ), where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies. if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials to our customers, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the united states, the united kingdom, canada, japan, mexico and the netherlands, and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in germany, france, austria and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense. we currently expect to make substantial contributions to our u.s. and foreign defined benefit pension plans during the next three years, and may make additional substantial contributions thereafter. an exemption from the registration requirements of the securities act may not be available for certain acquisitions of interest in our common stock fund in the flowserve corporation retirement savings plan ( 401(k) plan ) which exposes us to potential liabilities, including rescission rights. as of may 1, 2005, due to the non-current status of our financial filings with the sec, our registration statements on form s-8 were no longer available to cover offers and sales of securities to our employees and other persons. since that date, the acquisition of interests in our common stock fund under our 401(k) plan by plan participants may have been subject to the registration requirements of the securities act of 1933 or applicable state securities laws and may not have qualified for an available exemption from such requirements. federal securities laws generally provide for a one-year rescission right for an investor who acquires unregistered securities in a transaction that is subject to registration and for which no exemption was available. as such, an investor successfully asserting a rescission right during the one-year time period has the right to require an issuer to repurchase the securities acquired by the investor at the price paid by the investor for the securities (or if such security has been disposed of, to receive damages with respect to any loss on such disposition), plus interest from the date of acquisition. these rights may apply to affected participants in our 401(k) plan. based on our current stock price, we believe that our current potential liability for rescission claims is not material to our financial condition or results of operations; however, our potential liability could become material in the future if our stock price were to fall below participants acquisition prices for their interest in our stock fund during the one-year period following the unregistered acquisitions. 18 table of contents a significant number of stock option exercises following the removal of the current suspension on stock option exercises would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share we have a substantial number of outstanding stock options granted in past years to employees under our stock option plans which have not been exercisable for an extended period due to our non-current filing status relating to our sec financial reports. given the significant increase in our share price during the period in which optionees have been unable to exercise their options, it is possible that many holders may want to exercise soon after they are first able to do so. if, following our removal of the current suspension on stock option exercises, the holders of a large number of these options promptly exercise, there would be some dilutive impact on our earnings per share. the impact on our earnings per share is dependent upon share price, number of shares and strike price of shares exercised. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make mandatory payments and, under certain circumstances, mandatory prepayments on our outstanding indebtedness which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes and could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry. in addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities and our other outstanding indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; make capital expenditures; change fiscal year; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted payments; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. in addition, the credit facilities contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to 19 table of contents comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that are complementary to ours in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. in addition, acquisition of businesses may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense, and could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may encounter operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the challenges associated with acquisitions include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management attention from our day-to-day operations. furthermore, no guarantees can be made that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plans, seeks, anticipate, believe, estimate, predicts, potential, continue, intends, or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described under the heading risk factors above, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 20 table of contents all forward-looking statement included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. debt prepayments and repayments the following summarizes our repayment of obligations under our various credit facilities: 2005 2004 2003 (amounts in millions) scheduled repayment $ 1.5 $ 27.5 $ 0.9 mandatory repayment 167.9 optional prepayment(1) 38.4 160.0 163.1 loss on debt repayment and extinguishment 27.7 2.7 1.3 (1) optional prepayment excludes the proceeds from our new credit facilities that were used to repay our outstanding obligations under our 2000 credit facilities and our 12.25% senior subordinated notes. loans under our new credit facilities are subject to mandatory repayment with, in general: 100% of the net cash proceeds of asset sales; and unless we attain and maintain investment grade credit ratings: 75% of our excess cash flow, subject to a reduction based on the ratio of our total debt to consolidated ebitda; 50% of the proceeds of any equity offerings; and 100% of the proceeds of any debt issuances (subject to certain exceptions). we made a mandatory debt repayment of $10.9 million in january 2006 using the net cash proceeds from the sale of gsg and we will make a mandatory repayment of $0.9 million in july 2006 using excess cash flows. we may prepay loans under our new credit facilities in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. we incurred $9.3 million in fees related to the new credit facilities, of which $0.8 million were expensed in 2005. prior to the refinancing, we had $11.8 million of unamortized deferred loan costs related to previous credit facilities and senior subordinated notes, which were called immediately following our refinancing. based upon the final syndicate of financial institutions for the new credit facilities, we expensed $10.5 million of these unamortized deferred loan costs in 2005. in addition to the total loan costs of $11.3 million that were expensed, we recorded a charge of $16.4 million for premiums paid to call our senior subordinated notes, for a total loss on extinguishment of $27.7 million recorded in 2005. the remaining $8.5 million of fees related to the new credit facilities were capitalized and combined with the remaining $1.3 million of previously unamortized deferred loan costs for a total of $9.8 million in deferred loan costs included in other assets, net. these costs are being amortized over the term of the new credit facilities using the effective interest method. accounts receivable securitization in october 2004, flowserve us inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, and flowserve receivables corporation ( frc ), a wholly owned subsidiary of flowserve us inc., entered into a receivables purchase agreement ( rpa ) with two third party financial institutions whereby frc could obtain up to $75 million in financing on a revolving basis by securitizing certain u.s.-based trade receivables. to obtain financing, flowserve us inc. transferred eligible receivables to frc, which was formed solely for this accounts receivable securitization program. pursuant to the rpa, frc then sold undivided purchaser interests 48 table of contents in these receivables to the third party financial institutions. flowserve us inc. continued to service the receivables for a servicing fee of 0.5% of the average net receivable balance. no servicing liability was recognized at december 31, 2004 because the amount was immaterial due to the short term average collection period of the securitized receivables. frc had no recourse against flowserve us inc. for failure of the debtors to pay when due. as of december 31, 2004, frc had secured $60 million in financing under the program. the proceeds were used to repay $16 million and $44 million of tranche a and tranche c bank term loans, respectively, outstanding under our prior credit facilities. at the time the purchaser interests were sold, $48.7 million of the receivables transferred to frc were removed from frc financial statements, and frc further recorded short-term debt of $11.3 million. borrowings under the rpa in excess of $11.3 million are excluded from our debt balance as presented in the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2004. on october 31, 2005, we terminated the rpa. in connection with this, we borrowed approximately $48 million under our new credit facilities and repurchased outstanding receivable interests from the third party financial institutions. see additional discussion of our accounts receivable securitization program in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. accounts receivable factoring through our european subsidiaries, we engage in non-recourse factoring of certain accounts receivable. the various agreements have different terms, including options for renewal and mutual termination clauses. under our previous credit facilities, such factoring was generally limited to $50 million, based on due date of the factored receivables. the limit on factoring was raised to $75 million under the new credit facilities entered into in august 2005. see additional discussion of our accounts receivable factoring program in note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. debt covenants and other matters our new credit facilities contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. under the leverage covenant, the maximum permitted leverage ratio steps down beginning with the fourth quarter of 2006, with a further step-down beginning with the fourth quarter of 2007. under the interest coverage covenant, the minimum required interest coverage ratio steps up beginning with the fourth quarter of 2006, with a further step-up beginning with the fourth quarter of 2007. compliance with these financial covenants under our new credit facilities is tested quarterly. delivery of the december 31, 2005 audited financial statements is required by may 30, 2006. we have received a waiver from our lenders to deliver the december 31, 2005 audited annual financial statements by july 31, 2006. further, we are required to furnish within 50 days of the end of each of the first three quarters of each year our consolidated balance sheet, and related statements of operations, shareholders equity and cash flows. our new credit facilities also contain covenants restricting our and our subsidiaries ability to dispose of assets, merge, pay dividends, repurchase or redeem capital stock and indebtedness, incur indebtedness and guarantees, create liens, enter into agreements with negative pledge clauses, make certain investments or acquisitions, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, enter into transactions with affiliates, make capital expenditures, engage in any business activity other than our existing business or any business activities reasonably incidental thereto. with the waiver for delivery of the december 31, 2005 audited financial statements, we are in compliance with all debt covenants under the new credit facilities. 49 table of contents contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2005: payments due by period within beyond 5 1 year 2-3 years 4-5 years years total (amounts in millions) long-term debt $ 11.7 $ 11.5 $ 11.5 $ 628.8 $ 663.5 fixed interest payments(1) 6.2 10.4 10.8 2.7 30.1 variable interest payments(2) 36.9 73.2 71.6 47.2 228.9 capital lease obligations 0.6 0.7 1.3 operating leases 21.4 30.4 17.4 13.6 82.8 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 200.1 11.7 211.8 non-inventory 23.3 9.0 0.3 32.6 retirement and postretirement benefits(4) 37.9 80.4 84.7 226.9 429.9 (1) fixed interest payments include payments on fixed and synthetically fixed rate debt. (2) variable interest payments under our new credit facilities were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2005. (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans, as more fully described in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2005: commitment expiration by period within 1 beyond 5 year 2-3 years 4-5 years years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 277.0 $ 55.1 $ 9.5 $ 0.6 $ 342.2 surety bonds 23.1 10.5 0.3 33.9 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations required by sfas no. 87, employers accounting for pensions, and sfas no. 106, employers accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions. we consider accounting for retirement plans critical because management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term return on plan assets, retirement, turnover, health care cost trend rates and mortality rates. depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding. plan description we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time and part-time employees. the defined benefit pension plan in the u.s. is the flowserve corporation pension plan and the defined contribution plan is the flowserve corporation retirement savings plan. 50 table of contents approximately 66% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and 57% of benefit obligations are related to the u.s. plan as of december 31, 2005. the assets for the u.s. plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to total plans (i.e., the u.s. plan together with international plans). benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on years of credited service and on participants compensation. assets under our defined benefit pension plans consist primarily of equity and fixed-income securities. at december 31, 2005, the fair market value of plan assets for our defined benefit plans increased to $311.6 million from $276.3 million at december 31, 2004. assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan non-u.s. plans asset category 2005 2004 2005 2004 equity securities 66 % 64 % 48 % 45 % fixed income 30 % 31 % 41 % 42 % other 4 % 5 % 11 % 13 % the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans was $520.6 million and $488.7 million as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. we sponsor a defined benefit postretirement health care plan covering most current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. this plan provides for medical and dental benefits and is administered through insurance companies. we fund the plan as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plan are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement health care plan was $73.8 million and $88.7 million as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the decrease is primarily a result of plan amendments in 2005 that reduced our obligation from full coverage to a capped amount at two facilities and a higher than expected decrease in plan participants. accrual accounting and significant assumptions consistent with the requirements of sfas no. 87, we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits necessarily requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase, and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension benefits, such as discount rate, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, life expectancy of participants and assumed rate of wage increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. depending on the assumptions used, the pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. the assumed discount rate used for determining future pension obligations is based on indices of aa-rated corporate bonds, except for two foreign locations which use government bonds. the assumed rate of compensation increase used for determining future pension obligations reflects an estimate of the change in actual future compensation levels due to general price levels, productivity, seniority and other factors. in 2005, net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in income from continuing operations was $26.5 million compared to $22.9 million in 2004 and $20.0 million in 2003. the postretirement benefit expense for the postretirement health care plan was $0.8 million in 2005 compared to $3.8 million in 2004 51 table of contents and $4.1 million in 2003. the decline in 2005 is primarily attributable to plan amendments capping our liabilities and to a decrease in the number of participants. the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans for the year ended december 31, 2005: u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: discount rate 5.50 % 4.43 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.50 3.19 weighted average assumptions used to determine net cost: long-term rate of return on assets 8.25 % 6.00 % discount rate 5.75 5.12 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.50 3.05 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on pension expense $ (1.0 ) $ 1.0 effect on projected benefit obligation (12.2 ) 12.7 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on pension expense (1.1 ) 2.4 effect on projected benefit obligation (19.8 ) 22.0 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.7 ) 0.2 effect on projected benefit obligation (3.1 ) 3.2 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on pension expense $ (1.0 ) $ 1.0 effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on pension expense (0.5 ) 0.5 effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense n/a n/a effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a as discussed below, gaap provides that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2005, we lowered our assumed discount rate for the u.s. plan from 5.75% to 5.50% consistent with decreased 10-year bond yields and our average rate for non-u.s. plans from 5.12% to 4.43%. we maintained our average assumed rate of compensation increase at 4.5% for the u.s. plan and slightly increased the assumed rate of compensation increase to 3.19% for non-u.s. plans. the reduction in the discount rate had the 52 table of contents effect of increasing the present value of benefit obligations and, accordingly, increased pension expense for 2005. we lowered the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets from 8.75% for 2004 to 8.25% for 2005, primarily to reflect reduced expected long-term equity returns. further reductions to the assumed discount rate and expected rate of return will have the effect of increasing pension expense for 2006. we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $4.4 million higher in 2006 than the $26.5 million in 2005, reflecting, among other things, the decrease in the assumed discount rate and expected reduction in the rate of return on plan assets. we expect the 2006 expense for the postretirement health care plan to be $0.8 million. we have used the same assumed discount rates of 5.50% and 5.75% at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, in calculating our cost of pension benefits and our cost of other postretirement benefits for u.s. plans. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in per capita costs for periods prior to medicare were 8.0% for 2005, 9.0% for 2004 and 10.0% for 2003, with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2007 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. on december 8, 2003, president bush signed into law the medicare prescription drug, improvement and modernization act of 2003 (the medicare act ). the effects of the medicare act are reflected in 2004 net periodic postretirement benefit cost (a reduction of $0.7 million) and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at december 31, 2004 (a reduction of $4.5 million). delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses at december 31, 2005 and 2004, unrecognized net actuarial losses for our defined benefit plans were $163.0 million and $132.2 million, respectively, based on the fair market value of plan assets. these unrecognized net actuarial losses primarily reflect in large part the steady reduction of the weighted-average discount rate over the years. sfas no. 87 provides for delayed recognition of actuarial gains and losses, including amounts arising from changes in the estimated plan benefit obligations due to changes in the assumed discount rate, differences between the actual and expected returns on plan assets, and other assumption changes. sfas no. 87 requires that unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss, determined based on the market-related value of plan assets (which differs from fair market value and is a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over five years), be amortized in pension expense for the year to the extent that such unrecognized net actuarial loss or gain exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. these net gains and losses are recognized as pension expense prospectively over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the plans to the extent that they are not offset by losses and gains in subsequent years. at december 31, 2005, the unrecognized net actuarial loss for the u.s. plan subject to amortized recognition, determined based on the market-related value of plan assets, was $105.8 million. this amount exceeded 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets by $77.0 million. unless offset by future unrecognized gains from higher discount rates or higher than expected returns on plan assets, amortization of this unrecognized loss is expected to increase pension expense for each of the following 13 years by approximately $6.0 million per year, which amount is reflected in the higher expense expected in 2006. in the event the fair market value of pension plan assets of a particular plan is less than the accumulated benefit obligation for such plan at year-end, gaap may require an additional minimum liability, and in such circumstances, a reduction in shareholders equity or an establishment of an intangible asset. at december 31, 2005, the fair market value of our defined benefit pension plan assets was $311.6 million and the related accumulated benefit obligation was $501.9 million. we recognized an additional minimum liability of $137.4 million at december 31, 2005, which was recorded as a $93.2 million charge in other comprehensive income included in shareholders equity, a $43.5 million deferred tax asset, and a $0.7 million intangible asset. at december 31, 2004, the fair market value of our defined benefit pension plan assets was $276.3 million and the related accumulated benefit obligation was $473.6 million. we recognized an additional minimum liability of $97.4 million at december 31, 2004, which 53 table of contents was recorded as a $62.1 million charge in other comprehensive income included in stockholders equity, a $34.6 million deferred tax asset, and a $0.7 million increase in the intangible asset. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $53.1 million, $23.4 million and $34.7 million to our defined benefit plans in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. in 2006, we expect to contribute approximately $36 million to our qualified u.s. pension plan, and we expect to contribute approximately $8 million to our non-u.s. pension plans. for further discussions on retirement benefits, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. our critical accounting policies and estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include timing and amount of revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory costing and related fair value allowances, deferred tax asset realization, restructuring charges and expected payments reflected in related reserves, legal and environmental claims estimates, warranty provisions, pension and postretirement benefits obligations and the fair value of indefinite-lived assets (including goodwill) and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed quarterly by management with oversight by our disclosure control committee, an internal committee comprised of members of senior management, and the disclosure control committee presents its views to the audit committee of our board of directors. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for products and short-term projects are recognized based on the shipping terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions required, which is generally the point of title transfer. if the customer order requires formal acceptance, revenue is not recognized until formal acceptance has been received. for contracts containing multiple products, each having separable value, we generally recognize revenue on individual product shipments equal to the shipped products pro rata share of the contract fair value upon the fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions of the individual product shipment. for multiple deliverables under a single contract or arrangement, such as product delivery and installation, we separate the fair value of the product from the installation and recognize revenue on each element independently upon fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. our estimates mainly relate to the fair value determination of the underlying services or products. revenue on service contracts is recognized after the services have been rendered and accepted by the customer. all revenue for products, short-term projects and service contracts require, prior to recognition, the persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectibility. revenue for certain long-term large contracts is recorded on the percentage of completion method calculated on a cost-to-cost basis, in instances where reliable cost estimates exist. percentage of completion revenue represents 54 table of contents less than 5% of our consolidated revenues for each year presented, and is most prevalent in fpd. the percentage of completion method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress, and in doing so we make judgments to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in scheduled delivery and the cost of materials, labor costs and productivity, the impact of change orders, potential warranty liabilities and liquidated damage claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. changes in total estimated contract costs and resultant contract losses, if any, are recognized in the period in which they are determined. revenue generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for five years. fixed fee service and repair contracts represent less than 5% of our consolidated revenue for each year presented, and are most prevalent in fsd. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet schedule or agreed upon delivery dates can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payments of such costs are likely, we perform project profitability analysis using such costs to reduce revenues realizable, which could cause estimated project costs to exceed projected revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in instances where the reduced revenues still exceed costs, the incurrence of the costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. allowance for doubtful accounts we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based on estimates of the amount of uncollectible accounts receivable. the amount of the allowance is determined principally based upon the aging of the receivable, as well as on customer credit history, significant customer disputes, outstanding industry and market segment information, economic trends and conditions, credit reports and customer financial condition. we consider our collection history and specifically known uncollectible accounts in establishing our allowance. customer credit issues, customer bankruptcies, general economic conditions or other matters largely beyond our control can affect the collectibility of our accounts receivable. if our customers financial conditions worsened or if customer disputes increased beyond levels currently provided for, we might be required to recognize additional allowances or incur additional write-offs, which would adversely impact our results of operation, cash flows and financial position. our credit risk may be mitigated by our large number of customers across many different geographic regions. for all of 2003 and most of 2004, we had a credit insurance policy for many of our european subsidiaries, whereby we were entitled to remuneration from the third party insurer, net of deductible, in instances where customers covered by this policy were unable to pay. we cancelled this policy in late 2004 due to minimal claims sought. inventories and related reserves inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. we primarily determine cost for the majority of our u.s. inventories by the last-in, first-out method and for other inventories by the first-in, first-out method. we estimate the market value of our inventory based on an assessment of recent or committed sales prices, and provide for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical usage, estimated future demand and related pricing. in determining excess quantities, we consider recent sales activity, related margins and market positioning of our products. these estimates are generally not subject to significant volatility, due to the long life cycles of our product lines, except for product rationalizations generally associated with acquisition integration programs. however, factors beyond our control, such as demand levels, technological advances and pricing competition, could change from period to period. if such factors had an adverse effect on us, we might be required to reduce the value of our inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 55 table of contents deferred taxes and tax valuation allowances we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain net operating loss carryforwards for u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. tax reserves the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for certain positions that are subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest as deemed appropriate. we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, and our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. restructuring and integration expense restructuring and integration expenses have generally been recognized in conjunction with our acquisitions. such expenses reflect many estimates including costs pertaining to employee severance payments, fulfillment of outstanding contractual obligations and other matters associated with exiting a facility. restructuring costs related to facilities and employees of acquired businesses generally become a component of goodwill, whereas non-acquisition related restructuring costs are recorded as restructuring expense in the consolidated statements of operations. integration costs are recognized as a reduction to the results of operations as a component of current earnings. reserves created for each restructuring plan are assessed quarterly and adjusted for any revisions of cost estimates or other changes in planned restructuring activities. prior to january 1, 2003, we recognized restructuring reserves when the related restructuring plans had been both approved and communicated to affected employees. in conjunction with adopting sfas no. 146, accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities, on january 1, 2003, we now record restructuring reserves as the related liability is incurred. legal and environmental accruals the costs relating to legal and environmental liabilities are recorded when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. we have a formal process for assessing the facts and recording any required reserves on a case-by-case basis. assessments of legal and environmental reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. warranty accruals warranty obligations are based upon product failure rates, materials usage and service delivery costs, an analysis of all identified or expected claims and an estimate of the cost to resolve such claims. the estimates of expected claims are generally a factor of historical claims and known product issues. warranty obligations based on 56 table of contents these factors are adjusted based on historical sales trends for the preceding 24 months. changes in claim rates, differences between actual and expected warranty costs, sales trends, and facility rationalization activities could impact warranty obligation estimates, which might have adverse effects to our consolidated results of operations and financial position. retirement and postretirement benefits determination of the value of our retirement and postretirement benefits liabilities is based on actuarial valuations. inherent in these valuations are key assumptions which are assessed annually in the fourth quarter and which include: discount rates; expected return on plan assets for funded plans; life expectancy of participants; assumed rate of wage increases; and assumed rate of health care cost increases. we evaluate, in conjunction with our professional advisors, prevailing market conditions in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation rates. specifically for our u.s. plan, we assess such market factors as changes in the cash balance interest crediting rate, borrowing rates for investment grade corporate and industrial companies, assumptions used by fortune 500 companies, our actual wage increases in recent years, expected rates of return for each targeted asset class held by the plans and return premiums generated by active investment management. for the non-u.s. plans we perform similar analyses, but also factor in local laws and requirements. we also compare our significant assumptions with our peers and discuss our key assumptions, prior to their incorporation into actuarial calculations, with the finance committee of our board of directors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets our business acquisitions typically generate goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect prospective amortization expense and possible impairment expense we might incur. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. impairment losses for goodwill are recognized whenever the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. impairment losses for intangibles are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units, which correlate to our operating segments. the test of indefinite-lived intangibles involves significant judgment in estimating projections of future sales levels. in calculating the fair value of the reporting units using the present value of estimated future cash flows, we rely on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market data used in discounting those cash flows. inherent uncertainties exist in determining and applying such factors. the discount rate used in the projection of fair value represents a weighted average cost of capital of 8.65%, which is applicable to our company and industry based on published data. the net realizable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, is reviewed periodically, when indicators of potential impairments are present, based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing methodologies similar to that for goodwill and indefinite-lived assets. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 57 table of contents accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. outlook for 2006 we experienced strengthening in our markets in 2005 and we remain optimistic about our markets and our performance in 2006, considering that the economic opportunities in many of our geographic and core industrial markets continue to be strong. as a result of these factors, our revenues are expected to increase from 2005, excluding currency fluctuations. for additional discussion on our markets, see the business overview our markets section of this management discussion and analysis. our bookings have increased 23.3% for the three months ended march 31, 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005. however, as a booking represents a contract that can be modified or canceled, there is no guarantee that the increase in bookings will result in the same increase in revenues. we expect our operating income to increase in 2006 as compared with 2005, although there are a numbers of factors that could have a significant impact on our operating income in 2006. our 2006 operating income should continue to benefit from a number of operational improvement programs, including the procurement program and the cip initiative, as well as other operational improvements in several of our facilities. in addition, continuation of our end user strategy, selective contract bidding and an increase in our quick turnaround products, which are historically more profitable, should also positively contribute to our operating income in 2006. however, a number of significant costs and certain other expenses will negatively impact our operating income in 2006. these include selected investments in technology infrastructure to consolidate our erp systems; enhancements to our cip initiative; professional fees incurred in the development of tax strategies and enhancement of our compliance programs; an increase in research and development spending; a continued high level of professional fees primarily related to the restatement of our financial results for 2002, 2003 and the first quarter of 2004, and the 2004 and 2005 audits, including section 404 assessments, which were all completed in the first half of 2006; initiation of the 2006 audit and section 404 assessment; non-cash stock compensation expenses primarily related to the adoption of sfas no. 123(r), share-based payment and re-measurement and modification of certain stock options; and higher wage and benefit costs due to inflation. in addition, we may experience capacity constraints at several of our plant locations in 2006 which could cause delays in shipping and payment of liquidated damages. if these factors occur as we have described, we expect net earnings and net earnings per share to improve in 2006. there is potential for the exercise of a significant amount of stock options in 2006 which will become exercisable after we become current with our required filings with the sec. the exercise of the stock options could have a dilutive effect on net earnings per share. see the liquidity and capital resources section of this management discussion and analysis for further discussion. following the refinancing of the 2000 credit facilities and the 12.25% senior subordinated notes in august 2005, 100% of our debt carries a floating rate of interest. as of december 31, 2005 we had $410 million of derivative contracts to convert a portion of floating interest rates to fixed interest rates to reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility. as a result of our refinancing and lower levels of debt in 2006, we expect our interest expense will be lower in 2006 as compared to 2005. however, because a large portion of our debt carries a floating rate of interest, the debt is subject to volatility in rates, which could negatively affect interest expense. in addition, we do not expect to incur losses on debt extinguishment in 2006 as were incurred during the re-financing during 2005. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our business, capital expenditures, pension plan contribution obligations and costs of compliance, and continue to reduce debt levels. we expect to improve working capital utilization by reducing dso and increasing inventory turns. however, the amount of cash generated from working capital is dependent on the level of revenues and other factors. in 2006 our capital expenditures are focused on capacity expansion, enterprise resource planning application upgrades, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and are expected to be between $70 million and $75 million, before consideration of any acquisition activity. currently, no significant acquisitions are imminent. while current pension regulations allow us latitude in the amount of contributions, we currently anticipate that our contributions to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be between $35 million and $40 million in 2006. we currently anticipate that our 58 table of contents contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $8 million in 2006. we have no scheduled repayments in 2006 under the new credit facilities, however we made a mandatory repayment of $10.9 million in january 2006 using the net cash proceeds from the sale of gsg and we will make a mandatory repayment of $0.9 million in july 2006 using excess cash flows. we expect to comply with the covenants under our new credit facilities in 2006. see the liquidity and capital resources section of this management discussion and analysis for further discussion of our debt covenants. the potential exercise of a significant amount of stock options in 2006 (see preceding paragraph) could generate a significant amount of cash in 2006. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risks associated with financial instruments we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we enter into forward contracts to hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the operation engaging in the transaction. our risk management and derivatives policy specifies the conditions under which we may enter into derivative contracts. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, we had approximately $236 million and $139 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding forward contracts with third parties. at december 31, 2005, the maximum length of any forward contract currently in place was 20 months. certain of our forward contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts at december 31, 2005 and 2004 was a net liability of $2.3 million and a net asset of $3.4 million, respectively. unrealized gains (losses) from the changes in the fair value of these forward contracts of approximately $(5.2) million, $(2.5) million, and $1.6 million, for the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are included in other (expense) income, net in the consolidated statements of operations. the fair value of outstanding forward contracts qualifying for hedge accounting was a net liability of $7,000 and $2.3 million at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. unrealized gains (losses) from the changes in the fair value of qualifying forward contracts and the associated underlying exposures of $(35,000), $(0.2) million, and $0.5 million, net of tax, as of december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are included in other comprehensive income (expense) in the consolidated statements of shareholders equity. also as part of our risk management program, we enter into interest rate swap agreements to hedge exposure to floating interest rates on term loans. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, we had $325.0 million and $125.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties. at december 31, 2005, the maximum length of any interest rate contract currently in place was approximately three years. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements was a net asset of $0.9 million and a net liability of $3.4 million, respectively. during 2004, we entered into a compound derivative contract to hedge exposure to both currency translation and interest rate risks associated with our european investment bank ( eib ) loan. the notional amount of the derivative was $85 million, and it served to convert floating rate interest rate risk to a fixed rate, as well as u.s. dollar currency risk to euros. the derivative matures in 2011. at december 31, 2005 and 2004, the fair value of this derivative was a net liability of $2.8 million and $15.9 million, respectively. the unrealized gain (loss) on the derivative, offset with the foreign transaction gain on the underlying loan aggregate to $0.2 million and $(5.1) million for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and are included in other (expense) income, net in the consolidated statements of operations. we are exposed to risk from credit-related losses resulting from nonperformance by counterparties to our financial instruments. we perform credit evaluations of our counterparties under forward contracts and interest rate swap agreements and expect all counterparties to meet their obligations. we have not experienced credit losses from our counterparties. our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2005, after the effect of interest rate swaps, 59 table of contents we had approximately $253.5 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 6.36%. a hypothetical change of 100-basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would change interest expense by approximately $2.5 million. we employ a foreign currency hedging strategy to minimize potential losses in earnings or cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. these strategies also minimize potential gains from favorable exchange rate movements. foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency and from foreign-denominated revenues and profits translated back into u.s. dollars. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2005 and before consideration of any outstanding forward contracts, a 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations by $11.7 million. an analysis of the estimated impact by currency follows (in millions): impact on net currency earnings euro $ 3,367.0 swiss franc 1,625.0 british pound 1,198.1 singapore dollar 1,118.6 indian rupee 798.2 canadian dollar 759.8 venezuelan bolivar 621.4 mexican peso 583.9 argentinean peso 386.2 australian dollar 382.7 brazilian real 292.2 japanese yen 276.6 saudi arabian riyal 120.4 other 180.3 total $ 11,710.4 hedging related transactions, recorded to other comprehensive income (expense), net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: other comprehensive income (expense) 2005 2004 2003 (amounts in thousands) reclassification to earnings for settlements during the year: forward contracts $ 125 $ (458 ) $ (24 ) interest rate swap agreements 1,284 2,689 3,014 change in fair value: forward contracts 28 (190 ) 458 interest rate swap agreements 1,547 (162 ) (1,574 ) year ended december 31 $ 2,984 $ 1,879 $ 1,874 60 table of contents the following amounts, net of deferred taxes, represent the expected recognition into earnings for hedging contracts based on their fair values at december 31, 2005: forward interest rate contracts swaps total (amounts in millions) 2006 $ $ (0.1 ) $ (0.1 ) 2007 0.5 0.5 2008 0.2 0.2 total $ $ 0.6 $ 0.6 we incurred foreign currency translation gains (losses) of $(34.8) million, $21.4 million and $57.9 million, in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the currency loss in 2005 primarily reflects weakening of the euro versus the u.s. dollar and the currency gains in 2004 and 2003 primarily reflect strengthening of the euro versus the u.s. dollar. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors. any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. we are currently subject to securities class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of putative class action lawsuits have been filed against us, certain of our former officers, our independent auditors and the lead underwriters of our most recent public stock offerings, alleging securities laws violations. we believe that these lawsuits, which have been consolidated, are without merit and are vigorously defending them and have notified our applicable insurers. we cannot, however, determine with certainty the outcome or resolution of these claims or the timing for their resolution. the consolidated securities case is currently set for trial on october 1, 2007. in addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. if the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter. the ongoing sec and foreign government investigation regarding our participation in the united nations oil-for-food program could materially adversely affect our company. on february 7, 2006, we received a subpoena from the sec seeking documents and information relating primarily to products that two of our foreign subsidiaries delivered to iraq from 1996 through 2003 under the united nations oil-for-food program. we believe that the sec investigation is focused primarily on whether any inappropriate payments were made to iraqi officials in violation of the federal securities laws. the investigation includes periods prior to, as well as subsequent to, our acquisition of the foreign operations involved in the investigation. we may be subject to certain liabilities if violations are found regardless of whether they relate to periods before or subsequent to our acquisition. in addition, the two foreign subsidiaries have been contacted by governmental authorities in their respective countries concerning their involvement in the united nations oil-for-food program. we are unable to predict how the foreign governmental authorities will pursue either of these matters in the future. we believe that the sec and the foreign governmental authorities are also investigating other companies in connection with the united nations oil-for-food program. we engaged outside counsel in february 2006 to conduct an investigation of our foreign subsidiaries participation in the united nations oil-for-food program. the audit committee of the board of directors has been regularly monitoring this situation since the receipt of the sec subpoena and assumed direct oversight of the investigation in january 2007. we currently expect the investigation will be completed during the second quarter of 2007. our investigation has included, among other things, a detailed review of contracts with the iraqi government under the united nations oil-for-food program during 1996 through 2003, a forensic review of the accounting 12 table of contents records associated with these contracts, and interviews of persons with knowledge of the events in question. our investigation has found evidence to date that, during the years 2001 through 2003, certain non-u.s. personnel at the two foreign subsidiaries authorized payments in connection with certain of our product sales under the united nations oil-for-food program totaling approximately 0.6 million, which were subsequently deposited by a third party into iraqi-controlled bank accounts. these payments were not authorized under the united nations oil-for-food program and were not properly documented in the subsidiaries accounting records but were expensed as paid. during the course of the investigation, certain other potential issues involving non-u.s. personnel were identified at one of the foreign subsidiaries, which are currently under review. we have taken certain disciplinary actions against persons who engaged in wrongful conduct, violated our ethics policies or failed to cooperate fully in the investigation, including terminating the employment of certain non-u.s. senior management personnel at one of the foreign subsidiaries. certain other non-u.s. senior management personnel at that facility involved in the above conduct had been previously separated from the company for other reasons. we will continue to fully cooperate in both the sec and the foreign investigations. the investigations are in progress but, at this point, are incomplete. accordingly, if the sec and/or the foreign authorities take enforcement action with regard to these investigations, we may be required to pay fines, disgorge profits, consent to injunctions against future conduct or suffer other penalties which could potentially materially impact our business, financial condition results of operations and cash flows. potential noncompliance with u.s. export control laws could materially adversely affect our business. we have notified applicable u.s. governmental authorities of our ongoing investigation, analysis, and voluntary disclosure of certain apparent past violations of the u.s. export control laws, subject to further analysis and verification, through, in general, the export and reexport of products, services and technologies without the licenses that may be required by such authorities. if any apparent violations are identified, confirmed and voluntarily disclosed as part of our investigation, which is being conducted in conjunction with outside counsel, we could be subject to substantial fines and other penalties affecting our ability to do business outside the united states. our risks involved in conducting our international business operations include, without limitation, the risks associated with certain of our foreign subsidiaries autonomously conducting, under their own local authority and consistent with u.s. export laws, business operations and sales, which constitute approximately 1% to 2% of our consolidated global revenue, in iran, syria and sudan, which have each been designated by the u.s. state department as state sponsors of terrorism. due to the growing political uncertainties associated with these countries, we have begun our voluntary withdrawal, on a phased basis, from conducting new business in these countries. these subsidiaries may continue to honor certain existing contracts, commitments and warranty obligations that are in compliance with u.s. laws and local and regulations. the internal revenue service ( irs ) is auditing our tax returns, and a negative outcome of the audit would require us to make additional tax payments that may be material. the irs substantially concluded its audit of our u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1999-2001 during december, 2005. based on its audit work, the irs has issued proposed adjustments to increase taxable income during 1999 through 2001 by $12.8 million, and to deny foreign tax credits of $2.4 million in the aggregate. the tax liability resulting from these proposed adjustments will be offset with foreign tax credit carryovers and other refund claims, which were approved by the joint committee on taxation on july 24, 2006, and therefore should not result in a material future cash payment the effect of the adjustments to current and deferred taxes has been reflected in previously filed consolidated financial statements for the applicable periods. during the third quarter of 2006, the irs commenced an audit of our u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 2002 through 2004. while we expect the current irs audit to be similar in scope to the recently completed examination, this audit may be broader. furthermore, the results from the audit of 1999 through 2001 are not indicative of the future result of the audit of 2002 through 2004. the audit of 2002 through 2004 may result in additional tax payments by us, the amount of which may or may not be material, but will not be known until that irs 13 table of contents audit is finalized. we do not anticipate that the audit of 2002 through 2004 will be completed prior to the third quarter of 2008, and may extend past such quarter, depending on the issues raised by irs with respect to such years. in the course of the tax audit for the years 1999 through 2001, we have identified record keeping and other material internal control weaknesses, which caused us to incur significant expense to substantiate our tax return items and address information and document requests made by the irs. due to these record keeping issues, the irs has issued us a notice of inadequate records for the years 1999 through 2001 and may issue a similar notice for the years 2002 through 2004. while the irs has agreed not to assess penalties for inadequacy of records with respect to the years 1999 through 2001, no assurances can be made that the irs will not seek to assess such penalties or other types of penalties with respect to the years 2002 through 2004. such penalties could result in a material impact to the consolidated results of operations. additionally, the record keeping issues noted above may result in future u.s. state and local tax assessments of tax, penalties and interest which could have a material impact to the consolidated results of operations. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses, and other deductible temporary differences which are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that $210 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing or service facilities in 31 countries and sell to customers in over 70 countries, in addition to the united states. moreover, we outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates; instability in a specific country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets and the middle east; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inability to repatriate income or capital; and 14 table of contents difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest and a two-month nation-wide work stoppage in venezuela in 2002 negatively impacted demand for our products from customers in that country and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that were affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, the military conflict in the 2003 middle east softened the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services in that region, notwithstanding the historically high prices for oil. additionally we are investigating or have investigated certain allegations regarding foreign management engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our code of business conduct which could have inappropriately benefited them at company expense. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, as a significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollar. the primary foreign currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, indian rupee, swiss franc, singapore dollar, mexican peso and canadian dollar. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the argentinean peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past. although we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the u.s. customs service, the bureau of industry and security, the office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations and various programs administered by the united nations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we are continuing our voluntary disclosure to applicable u.s. governmental authorities through an audit of our compliance with the u.s. export control laws and will voluntarily self-disclosure of any potential violations identified. if any violations are identified, then such disclosure could result in substantial fines and other penalties. see item 3. legal proceedings for more information. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. in connection with our 2006 assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our management concluded that as of december 31, 2006, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. while assessed as effective, because of its inherent limitations, there is a risk that internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. these inherent limitations include the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness in internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with existing policies or internal control procedures may deteriorate. 15 table of contents we may be unable to deliver our backlog on time which could affect our future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2006, backlog reached $1.6 billion. in 2007, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects, and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships, could negatively impact our financial performance, and potentially cause adverse changes in the market price of our outstanding common stock. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by the cyclical nature of their markets and their liquidity. demand for most of our products depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on the general economic conditions and their industries, and the expectations of future market behavior. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, demand for our products and services from our general industrial customers, such as steel and pulp and paper manufacturers, was negatively impacted by the u.s. recession in the early part of this decade. similarly, in response to high oil and natural gas prices and a weak demand for their products due to the soft economy, during the past several years our chemical customers reduced their spending on capital investments and operated their facilities at lower levels, reducing demand for our products and services. some of our customers may delay capital maintenance even during favorable conditions in their markets. for example, while high oil prices generally spur demand for our products and services in upstream petroleum markets, they often reduce demand for our products and services from oil refineries, as refiners seek to take advantage of favorable margins by operating at high levels of capacity utilization and deferring maintenance. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry. recently, amid increasing demand for crude and its derivatives and the tight market conditions, oil refineries have been scheduling maintenance activities and upgrading equipment to meet environmental regulations. in addition, chemical companies had been able to invest and maintain their equipment as they pass through the price increases to the end user. this recent evidence suggests a potential change in how the customer response to market conditions may impact our business activities. the diminished demand for our products and services could lead to excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated erosion of average selling prices in our industry, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, including profit margins, financial condition, and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products are fragmented and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability, with price competition tending to be more significant for sales to original equipment manufacturers. some of our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. to remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in 16 table of contents manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to extensive regulation under environmental laws. these laws can impose substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes that may limit production. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties at four superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged fair share allocation, is uncertain and speculative until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. all such products were used as self-contained components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of ambient asbestos-containing fiber during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate, and unfavorable rulings, judgments and/or settlement terms could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2006, we had approximately 14,000 employees, approximately half of whom were located in the u.s. of our u.s. employees, approximately 7% are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. although we believe that our relations with our employees are good and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in 17 table of contents some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached, and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. furthermore, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our sales, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have increased, with the prices for energy currently exceeding historical averages. we also strive to offset our increased costs through continuous improvement process ( cip ) initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies. if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials to our customers, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., the united kingdom, india, japan, mexico and the netherlands, and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in germany, france, austria and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense. we currently expect to make substantial contributions to our u.s. and foreign defined benefit pension plans during the next three years, and may make additional substantial contributions thereafter. in addition, pension reform legislation was passed in late 2006 which included minimum funding requirements effective for 2008. we are reviewing our funding policy related to the u.s. pension plan in accordance with the new law. we may continue to have exposure to liabilities arising from our failure to maintain registration under the securities act for certain acquisitions of interest in our common stock fund in the flowserve corporation retirement savings plan ( 401(k) plan ). between may 1, 2005 and september 29, 2006 (the relevant period ), due to the then non-current status of our filings with the sec in accordance with the securities exchange act of 1934, our registration statement on form s-8 was not available to cover offers and sales of securities to our employees and other persons. as a result, the acquisition of securities by the 401(k) plan on behalf of participants in our 401(k) plan during the relevant period did not comply with the registration requirements of the securities act. during the relevant period units of interest ( units ) representing a total of 464,033 shares of our common stock were purchased on behalf of participants in our 401(k) plan through application of: (i) salary reduction contributions from employees, (ii) fixed matching source funds from flowserve and (iii) intra-plan transfers of funds by participants out of other investments in the 401(k) plan into units. our failure to maintain the effectiveness of our registration statement on form s-8 gave the participants who directed the 401(k) plan to purchase units during the relevant period the right to rescind these purchases (or recover damages if they had sold their units) for up to one year under federal law following the 18 table of contents purchase of these units. in order to address this compliance issue, we conducted a rescission offering that expired on january 8, 2007. under the terms of the rescission offering, we made payments to participants who accepted the offer and who had sold shares acquired during the relevant period at a loss. we also acquired shares from accepting participants who had acquired shares during the relevant period at a price (together with interest at the applicable state rate) that exceeded the closing price of a share of our common stock on january 8, 2007 ($48.98). participants from whom we acquired shares in the rescission offering received the acquisition price they paid for their shares, together with interest. we paid a total of $386,750.59 to accepting participants (which included $15,557.95 for shares sold at a loss, and $371,192.64 as acquisition price (i.e., participant actual cost) and interest) for the 6,766 shares we acquired from participants pursuant to this rescission offering. it is unclear, however, whether or not participants in our 401(k) plan continue to have any rescission rights under the federal securities laws following the expiration of the rescission offering. it is the view of the sec staff that a right of rescission created under the securities act may survive a rescission offer. however, federal courts in the past have ruled that a person who rejects or fails to accept a rescission offer is precluded from later seeking similar relief. the remedies and statute of limitations under state securities laws vary and depend upon the state in which the shares were purchased. we believe, however, that the acquisitions of units made on behalf of participants during the relevant period were exempt from state registration requirements. based upon our current stock price, we believe that our current potential liability for rescission claims is not material to our financial condition or results of operations; however, our potential liability could become material in the future if our stock price were to fall below participants acquisition prices for their interest in our stock fund during the one-year period following the unregistered acquisitions and if it were determined by competent legal authorities that our rescission offering did not effectively terminate the rights of participants to seek rescission. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make mandatory payments and, under certain circumstances, mandatory prepayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes and could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry. in addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; make capital expenditures; change fiscal year; 19 table of contents pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted payments; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. in addition, our bank credit facilities contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that are complementary to ours in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. in addition, acquisition of businesses may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense, and could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may encounter operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the challenges associated with acquisitions include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management attention from our day-to-day operations. furthermore, no guarantees can be made that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plans, seeks, anticipate, believe, estimate, predicts, 20 table of contents potential, continue, intends, or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described under the heading risk factors above, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statement included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. debt prepayments and repayments the following summarizes our repayment of obligations under our various credit facilities: 2006 2005 2004 (amounts in millions) scheduled repayment $ $ 1.5 $ 27.5 mandatory repayment 15.3 167.9 optional prepayment(1) 90.0 38.4 160.0 loss on early extinguishment of debt 0.7 27.7 2.7 (1) optional prepayment in 2005 excludes the proceeds from our credit facilities that were used to repay our outstanding obligations under our previous credit facilities and our 12.25% senior subordinated notes. loans under our credit facilities are subject to mandatory repayment with, in general: 100% of the net cash proceeds of asset sales; and unless we attain and maintain investment grade credit ratings: 50% of the proceeds of any equity offerings; and 100% of the proceeds of any debt issuances (subject to certain exceptions). in 2006, we made mandatory repayments of $14.4 million, using the net cash proceeds from the sale of gsg, and $0.9 million, using excess cash flows as defined by the credit facilities. we may prepay loans under our credit facilities in whole or in part, without premium or penalty. we incurred $9.3 million in fees related to the credit facilities, of which $0.8 million were expensed in 2005. prior to the refinancing, we had $11.8 million of unamortized deferred loan costs related to previous credit facilities and senior subordinated notes, which were called immediately following our refinancing. based upon the final syndicate of financial institutions for the credit facilities, we expensed $10.5 million of these unamortized deferred loan costs in 2005. in addition to the total loan costs of $11.3 million that were expensed, we recorded a charge of $16.4 million for premiums paid to call our 12.25% senior subordinated notes, for a total loss on extinguishment of $27.7 million recorded in 2005. the remaining $8.5 million of fees related to the credit facilities were capitalized and combined with the remaining $1.3 million of previously unamortized deferred loan costs for a total of $9.8 million in deferred loan costs included in other assets, net. these costs are being amortized over the term of the credit facilities using the effective interest method. 50 table of contents accounts receivable factoring through our european subsidiaries, we engage in non-recourse factoring of certain accounts receivable. the various agreements have different terms, including options for renewal and mutual termination clauses. our credit facilities, which are fully described in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report, limit factoring volume to $75.0 million at any given point in time as defined by our credit facilities. debt covenants and other matters our credit facilities contain leverage and interest coverage financial covenants. under the leverage covenant, the maximum permitted leverage ratio stepped down in the fourth quarter of 2006, with a further step-down beginning in the fourth quarter of 2007. under the interest coverage covenant, the minimum required interest coverage ratio stepped up in the fourth quarter of 2006, with a further step-up beginning in the fourth quarter of 2007. compliance with these financial covenants under our credit facilities is tested quarterly. our credit facilities include events of default usual for these types of credit facilities, including nonpayment of principal or interest, violation of covenants, incorrectness of representations and warranties, cross defaults and cross acceleration, bankruptcy, material judgments, erisa events, actual or asserted invalidity of the guarantees or the security documents, and certain changes of control of our company. the occurrence of any event of default could result in the acceleration of our and the guarantors obligations under the credit facilities. we complied with the covenants through december 31, 2006. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2006: payments due by period within beyond 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years total (amounts in millions) long-term debt $ 2.8 $ 11.4 $ 143.5 $ 400.6 $ 558.2 fixed interest payments(1) (2.0 ) (2.0 ) variable interest payments(2) 38.8 76.7 75.0 12.6 203.1 capital lease obligations 0.2 0.6 0.8 operating leases 29.0 38.6 23.4 18.4 109.5 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 351.5 4.1 355.6 non-inventory 42.7 7.3 0.1 50.1 retirement and postretirement benefits(4) 42.1 90.2 92.6 229.4 454.3 total $ 505.1 $ 228.9 $ 334.6 $ 660.9 $ 1,729.6 (1) fixed interest payments include payments (receipts) on synthetically fixed rate debt. (2) variable interest payments under our credit facilities were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2006. (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans, as more fully described below and in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report. 51 table of contents the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2006: commitment expiration by period within beyond 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 280.9 $ 67.3 $ 19.3 $ 4.0 $ 371.5 surety bonds 44.7 2.9 1.0 48.6 total $ 325.6 $ 70.2 $ 19.3 $ 5.0 $ 420.1 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations required by sfas no. 87, employers accounting for pensions, and sfas no. 106, employers accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions. we consider accounting for retirement plans critical because management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, salary growth, long-term return on plan assets, retirement, turnover, health care cost trend rates and mortality rates. depending on the assumptions and estimates used, the pension and postretirement benefit expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding. adoption of sfas no. 158 as discussed in notes 1 and 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report, we adopted sfas no. 158 effective december 31, 2006. the impact of the adoption is summarized below ( mpl refers to minimum pension liability): pre-fas 158 pre-fas 158 fas 158 without mpl mpl with mpl adoption adjustment adjustment adjustment adjustments post fas 158 (amounts in thousands) net deferred tax asset $ 73,318 $ 8,685 $ 82,003 $ (2,740 ) $ 79,263 retirement obligations and other liabilities 414,739 (32,571 ) 382,168 25,926 408,094 total shareholders equity 1,019,886 23,886 1,043,772 (23,186 ) 1,020,586 the estimated prior service benefit for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2007 is $1.4 million. the estimated net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2007 is $7.5 million. plan description we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for regular full-time and part-time employees. the defined benefit pension plan in the u.s. is the flowserve corporation pension plan and the defined contribution plan is the flowserve corporation retirement savings plan. approximately 66% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and 54% of benefit obligations are related to the u.s. plan as of december 31, 2006. the assets for the u.s. plan are held in a single trust with a common asset allocation. unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to total plans (i.e., the u.s. plan together with international plans). benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on years of credited service and on participants compensation. assets under our defined benefit pension plans consist primarily of equity and fixed- 52 table of contents income securities. at december 31, 2006, the fair market value of plan assets for our defined benefit plans increased to $365.1 million from $311.6 million at december 31, 2005. assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan non-u.s. plans asset category 2006 2005 2006 2005 equity securities 65% 66% 50% 48% fixed income 25% 30% 38% 41% other 10% 4% 12% 11% the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans was $544.5 million and $520.6 million as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. we sponsor a defined benefit postretirement health care plan covering most current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. this plan provides for medical and dental benefits and is administered through insurance companies. we fund the plan as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plan are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement health care plan was $71.4 million and $73.8 million as of december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. accrual accounting and significant assumptions consistent with the requirements of sfas no. 87, we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits necessarily requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase, and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension benefits, such as discount rate, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, life expectancy of participants and assumed rate of wage increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension expense for the following year. depending on the assumptions used, the pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect accumulated benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. the assumed discount rate used for determining future pension obligations is based on indices of aa-rated corporate bonds, except for two foreign locations which use government bonds. the assumed rate of compensation increase used for determining future pension obligations reflects an estimate of the change in actual future compensation levels due to general price levels, productivity, seniority and other factors. the expected long-term rate of return on assets was determined by assessing the rates of return for each targeted asset class, return premiums generated by active portfolio management and by comparison of rates utilized by other companies. in 2006, net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in income from continuing operations was $31.4 million compared to $26.5 million in 2005 and $22.9 million in 2004. the postretirement benefit expense for the postretirement health care plan was $0.7 million in 2006 compared to $0.8 million in 2005 and $3.8 million in 2004. the decline in 2005 is primarily attributable to plan amendments capping our liabilities and to a decrease in the number of participants. 53 table of contents the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans for the year ended december 31, 2006: u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: discount rate 5.75 % 4.78 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.50 3.23 weighted average assumptions used to determine net cost: long-term rate of return on assets 7.50 % 5.46 % discount rate 5.50 4.43 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.50 3.19 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on pension expense $ (1.0 ) $ 1.0 effect on projected benefit obligation (12.1 ) 12.6 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on pension expense (2.1 ) 2.1 effect on projected benefit obligation (21.0 ) 24.0 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.6 ) 0.3 effect on projected benefit obligation (3.0 ) 3.1 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on pension expense $ (1.1 ) $ 1.1 effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on pension expense (0.6 ) 0.6 effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense n/a n/a effect on projected benefit obligation n/a n/a as discussed below, gaap provides that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2006, we increased our assumed discount rate for the u.s. plan from 5.50% to 5.75% consistent with increased 10-year bond yields and our average rate for non-u.s. plans from 4.43% to 4.78%. we maintained our average assumed rate of compensation increase at 4.5% for the u.s. plan. the increase in the discount rate had the effect of decreasing the present value of benefit obligations and, accordingly, decreased pension expense for 2006. we decreased the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets from 8.25% for 2005 to 7.5% for 2006, primarily to reflect reduced expected long-term equity returns. 54 table of contents we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $2.8 million lower in 2007 than the $31.4 million in 2006, reflecting, among other things, the increase in the assumed discount rate and an expected reduction in the rate of return on plan assets. we expect the 2007 expense for the postretirement health care plan to be $0.7 million. we have used the same assumed discount rates of 5.50% and 5.75% at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, in calculating our cost of pension benefits and our cost of other postretirement benefits for u.s. plans. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in per capita costs were 9.0% for 2006, 8.0% for 2005 and 9.0% for 2004, with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2010 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $45.7 million, $53.1 million and $23.4 million to our defined benefit plans in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. in 2007, we expect to contribute approximately $20 million to our qualified u.s. pension plan, and we expect to contribute approximately $12 million to our non-u.s. pension plans. on august 17, 2006, president bush signed into law the pension protection act of 2006 (the ppa ). among other things, the ppa established minimum funding standards for defined benefit plans for plan years beginning after 2007 and provided for accelerated vesting of employer contributions to defined contribution plans beginning in 2007. we are still evaluating the impact of the ppa on our future funding of our u.s. defined benefit pension plans. for further discussions on retirement benefits, see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include; timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent losses; retirement and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed quarterly by management with oversight by our disclosure control committee, an internal committee comprised of members of senior management, and the disclosure control committee presents its views to the audit committee of our board of directors. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectibility. for contracts containing multiple 55 table of contents elements, each having a determinable fair value, we recognize revenue in an amount equal to the elements pro rata share of the contract fair value in accordance with the contractual delivery terms for each element. if a customer arrangement requires formal acceptance, revenue is not recognized until formal acceptance has been received. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. revenues for long-term contracts, which include contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer, are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represents approximately 7% of our consolidated sales in 2006. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years. fixed fee service contracts represent less than 1% of our consolidated sales in 2006. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in circumstances where the total projected reduced revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for u.s. and non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for certain positions that are subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest as deemed appropriate. we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, and our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and 56 table of contents circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. retirement and postretirement benefits determination of the value of our retirement and postretirement benefits liabilities is based on actuarial valuations. inherent in these valuations are key assumptions that are assessed annually in the fourth quarter and which include: discount rates; expected return on plan assets for funded plans; life expectancy of participants; assumed rate of wage increases; and assumed rate of health care cost increases. we evaluate, in conjunction with our professional advisors, prevailing market conditions in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation rates. specifically for our u.s. plan, we assess such market factors as changes in the cash balance interest crediting rate, borrowing rates for investment grade corporate and industrial companies, assumptions used by fortune 500 companies, our actual wage increases in recent years, expected rates of return for each targeted asset class held by the plans and return premiums generated by active investment management. for the non-u.s. plans we perform similar analyses, but also factor in local laws and requirements. we also compare our significant assumptions with our peers and discuss our key assumptions, prior to their incorporation into actuarial calculations, with the finance committee of our board of directors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets we record all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles and other intangibles at fair value, as required by sfas no. 141, business combinations. the initial recording of goodwill and intangibles requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment tests. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units, which correlate to our operating segments. the test of indefinite-lived intangibles involves significant judgment in estimating projections of future sales levels. impairment losses for goodwill are recognized whenever the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. impairment losses for intangibles are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. in calculating the fair value of the reporting units using the present value of estimated future cash flows, we rely on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market data used in discounting those cash flows. inherent uncertainties exist in determining and applying such factors. the discount rate used in the projection of fair value represents an internally estimated weighted average cost of capital of 9.37%. the net realizable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, is reviewed periodically, when indicators of potential impairments are present, based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing methodologies similar to that for goodwill and indefinite-lived assets. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. 57 table of contents due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. outlook for 2007 our future results of operations and other forward-looking statements contained in this annual report, including this md a, involve a number of risks and uncertainties in particular, the statements regarding our goals and strategies, new product introductions, plans to cultivate new businesses, future economic conditions, revenue, pricing, gross margin and costs, capital spending, depreciation and amortization, research and development expenses, potential impairment of investments, the tax rate, and pending tax and legal proceedings. our future results of operations may also be affected by the amount, type, and valuation of the share-based awards granted as well as the amount of awards forfeited due to employee turnover. in addition to the various important factors discussed above, a number of other factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. see the risks described in risk factors in part i, item 1a included in this annual report. we experienced continued strengthening in our markets in 2006 and we remain optimistic about our markets and our performance in 2007, considering that the economic opportunities in many of our geographic and core industrial markets continue to be strong. as a result of these factors, our revenues are expected to increase from 2006, excluding currency fluctuations. for additional discussion on our markets, see the business overview our markets section of this md a. our bookings for continuing operations increased 23.4% in 2006 as compared with 2005. we believe this will translate into increased revenue in 2007. however, as a booking represents a contract that can be modified or canceled, there is no guarantee that the increase in bookings will result in the same increase in revenues. additionally, as customer requested lead times have extended, the timing for conversion of a booking into revenue is extending accordingly. we expect our operating income to increase in 2007 as compared with 2006, although there are a numbers of factors that could have a significant impact on our operating income in 2007. we believe our 2007 operating income should continue to benefit from a number of operational improvement programs, including the procurement program and the cip initiative, as well as other operational improvements in several of our facilities. in addition, continuation of our end user strategy, and selective contract bidding may also positively contribute to our operating income in 2007. however, a number of significant costs and certain other expenses will negatively impact our operating income in 2007. these include selected investments in technology infrastructure to consolidate our erp systems; enhancements to our cip initiative; professional fees incurred in the development of tax strategies and enhancement of our compliance programs; an increase in research and development spending; non-cash stock compensation expenses primarily related to the adoption of sfas no. 123(r), and higher wage and benefit costs due to inflation. additionally, the large proportion of original equipment business booked in 2006 by fpd may have some negative pressure on gross margin percentage as those are shipped in 2007 and beyond. while we expect our tax rate in 2007 to be less than in 2006, several things could negatively impact it, including the adoption of fin no. 48 in 2007. following the refinancing of our previous credit facilities and 12.25% senior subordinated notes in august 2005, 100% of our debt carries a floating rate of interest. as of december 31, 2006 we had $435.0 million of derivative contracts to convert a portion of floating interest rates to fixed interest rates to reduce our exposure to interest rate volatility. as a result of our lower levels of debt in 2006, we expect our interest expense will be lower in 2007 as compared with 2006. however, because a portion of our debt carries a floating rate of interest, the debt is subject to volatility in rates, which could negatively impact interest expense. our results of operations may also be impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 58 table of contents we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our business, capital expenditures, pension plan contribution obligations and continue to reduce debt levels. we seek to continue to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. however, the amount of cash generated from working capital is dependent on the level of revenues, backlog and other factors. our plan for capital expenditures in 2007 is to focus on capacity expansion, enterprise resource planning application upgrades, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and are expected to be between approximately $85 million and $90 million, before consideration of any acquisition activity. currently, no significant acquisitions are imminent. while current pension regulations allow us latitude in the amount of contributions, we currently anticipate that our contributions to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million in 2007. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $12 million in 2007. we have $2.8 million in scheduled repayments in 2007 under our credit facilities. we expect to comply with the covenants under our credit facilities in 2007. see the liquidity and capital resources section of this md a for further discussion of our debt covenants. as we have discussed in this and prior publicly filed reports, we are currently subject to lawsuits, internal investigations and regulatory investigations in the u.s. and in foreign countries, which could negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations. we believe we are currently dealing with these matters appropriately, and we are diligently striving to achieve the most favorable results. in 2006, the board of directors approved a share repurchase program that authorized the company to repurchase up to two million shares of common stock. as of december 31, 2006, 1.3 million shares had been repurchased under the program, and an additional 0.5 million shares had been purchased as of february 26, 2007. we expect to fund the program using existing cash and cash provided by operations, borrowings and stock option exercises. we expect that our corporate representatives will, from time to time, meet privately with investors, investment analysts, the media and others, and may reiterate the forward-looking statements contained in this outlook for 2007 section and elsewhere in this annual report, including any such statements that are incorporated by reference in this annual report. at the same time, we will keep this annual report and our most current business outlook publicly available on our investor relations web site (www.intc.com). the public can continue to rely on the business outlook published on the web site as representing our current expectations on matters covered, unless we publish a notice stating otherwise. statements in the business outlook and other forward-looking statements in this annual report are subject to revision during the course of the year in our quarterly earnings releases and sec filings and at other times. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risks associated with financial instruments we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the operation engaging in the transaction. our risk management and derivatives policy specifies the conditions under which we may enter into derivative contracts. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $433.7 million and $287.1 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding forward contracts with third parties. at december 31, 2006, the length of forward contracts currently in place was two days to 17 months. the fair market value adjustments of a substantial portion of our forward contracts are recognized directly in our results of operations. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts at december 31, 2006 and 2005 was a net asset of $3.4 million and a net liability of $2.3 million, respectively. unrealized gains (losses) from the changes in the fair value of these forward contracts of $5.8 million, $(5.2) million, and $(2.5) million, for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are included in other (expense) income, net in the consolidated statements of income. the fair value of certain outstanding forward contracts that qualify for hedge accounting was a net liability of $0 and $7,000 at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. unrealized gains (losses) from the 59 table of contents changes in the fair value of qualifying forward contracts and the associated underlying exposures of $0, $(35,000), and $(0.2) million, net of tax, for the years ended december 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, are included in other comprehensive income (loss). also as part of our risk management program, we enter into interest rate swap agreements to hedge exposure to floating interest rates on certain portions of our debt. at december 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $435.0 million and $325.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties. at december 31, 2006, the maximum remaining length of any interest rate contract in place was approximately 36 months. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements was a net asset of $1.9 million and $0.9 million at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. unrealized gains from the changes in fair value of our interest rate swap agreements, net of reclassifications, of $0.7 million and $2.8 million, net of tax, for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are included in other comprehensive income (loss). we are exposed to risk from credit-related losses resulting from nonperformance by counterparties to our financial instruments. we perform credit evaluations of our counterparties under forward contracts and interest rate swap agreements and expect all counterparties to meet their obligations. we have not experienced credit losses from our counterparties. our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2006, after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had approximately $123.2 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 6.88%. a hypothetical change of 100-basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would change interest expense by approximately $1.2 million. we employ a foreign currency hedging strategy to minimize potential losses in earnings or cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. these strategies also minimize potential gains from favorable exchange rate movements. foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency and from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2006, and before consideration of any outstanding forward contracts, a 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations for 2006 by $12.2 million. an analysis of the estimated impact by currency follows (in millions): impact on net currency earnings euro $ 4.5 british pound 1.2 indian rupee 1.2 swiss franc 1.1 singapore dollar 0.9 mexican peso 0.8 australian dollar 0.5 canadian dollar 0.5 argentinean peso 0.4 brazilian real 0.4 venezuelan bolivar 0.3 chilean peso 0.1 malaysian ringgit 0.1 saudi arabian riyal 0.1 other 0.1 total $ 12.2 60 table of contents hedging related transactions, recorded to other comprehensive income (expense), net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: other comprehensive income (expense) 2006 2005 2004 (amounts in thousands) reclassification to earnings for settlements during the year: forward contracts $ 35 $ 125 $ (458 ) interest rate swap agreements 529 1,284 2,689 change in fair value: forward contracts 28 (190 ) interest rate swap agreements 133 1,547 (162 ) year ended december 31 $ 697 $ 2,984 $ 1,879 we expect to recognize $1.2 million, net of deferred taxes, into earnings in 2007 related to interest rate swap agreements based on their fair values at december 31, 2006. we incurred foreign currency translation gains (losses) of $38.9 million, $(34.8) million and $21.4 million, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which were recognized in other comprehensive income (expense). the currency gain in 2006 primarily reflects strengthening of the euro and the british pound versus the u.s. dollar. the currency loss in 2005 primarily reflects weakening of the euro versus the u.s. dollar and the currency gain in 2004 primarily reflects strengthening of the euro versus the u.s. dollar. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors. any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we are currently subject to the appeal of dismissed securities class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, certain of our former officers, our independent auditors and the lead underwriters of our most recent public stock offerings, alleging securities laws violations. by orders dated november 13, 2007 and january 4, 2008, the trial court granted summary judgment in favor of the company and all other defendants on all of the plaintiffs claims. the trial court also denied the plaintiffs request for class certification. while the company strongly believes that any appeal or other effort by the plaintiffs to overturn the trial court denial of class certification or entry of judgment would be without merit, and intends to oppose any such effort vigorously, we cannot determine with certainty the outcome or resolution of any effort to overturn these rulings. if the plaintiffs were successful in overturning the judgment and the case proceeded anew in the trial court, we could not determine with certainty the outcome of the plaintiffs claims or the timing for their resolution. in addition to the expense and burden we would incur in defending this litigation and any damages that we could suffer, our management efforts and attention could be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. if the final resolution of this litigation was unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage was unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter. noncompliance with u.s. export control laws could materially adversely affect our business. in march 2006, we initiated a voluntary process to determine our compliance posture with respect to u.s. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations. upon initial investigation, it appeared that some product transactions and technology transfers were not handled in full compliance with u.s. export control laws and regulations. as a result, in conjunction with outside counsel, we are currently involved in a voluntary, systematic process to conduct further review, validation and voluntary disclosure of apparent export violations discovered as part of this review process. we have completed approximately three-fourths of the site visits scheduled as part of this voluntary disclosure process, but currently believe this process will not be substantially complete and the results of site visits will not be fully analyzed until the end of 2008, given the complexity of the export laws and the current global scope of the investigation. any apparent violations of u.s. export control laws and regulations that are identified, confirmed and disclosed to the u.s. government may result in civil or criminal penalties, including fines and/or other penalties. although companies making voluntary export disclosures have historically received reduced penalties and certain mitigating credits, legislation enacted on october 16, 2007 increased the maximum civil penalty for certain export control violations (assessed on a per-shipment basis) to the greater of $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction. while the department of commerce has stated that companies which had initiated voluntary self-disclosures prior to the enactment of this legislation generally would not be subjected to enhanced penalties retroactively, we are unable to determine at this time how other u.s. government agencies will apply this enhanced penalty legislation. because our review into this issue is ongoing, we are currently unable to definitively determine the full extent of any apparent violations or the nature or total amount of penalties to which we might be subject to in the future. given that the resolution of this matter is uncertain at this time, we are not able to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount of liability that could result from final resolution of this matter. we cannot currently predict whether the final resolution of this matter will have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to do business outside the u.s., our financial condition or our results of operations. 12 table of contents we are subject to examination by various u.s., state and international taxing jurisdictions. we are subject to examination by various u.s., state, and international taxing jurisdictions, the results of which could result in negative outcomes that would require us to make additional tax payments that may be material. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses, and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $191 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 55 countries and sell to customers in over 70 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates; instability in a specific country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets and the middle east; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, the military conflict in the middle east could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. additionally, we are investigating or have investigated certain allegations regarding foreign management engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our code of business conduct, which could have inappropriately benefited them at the company expense. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, as a significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which 13 table of contents we have exposure are the euro, british pound, australian dollar, canadian dollar, brazilian real, singapore dollar, swedish krona, indian rupee and colombian peso. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the argentinean peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past. although we enter into forward contracts to economically hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations and various programs administered by the united nations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we are continuing our voluntary disclosure to applicable u.s. governmental authorities through an audit of our compliance with u.s. export control laws and are voluntarily self-disclosing any potential violations identified. disclosure of any such violations could result in substantial fines and other penalties. see item 3. legal proceedings for more information. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the ongoing military operations in iraq, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. in connection with our 2007 assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our management concluded that as of december 31, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. while assessed as effective, because of its inherent limitations, there is a risk that internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. these inherent limitations include the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. also, projections of any evaluation of 14 table of contents effectiveness in internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with existing policies or internal control procedures may deteriorate. we may be unable to deliver our backlog on time which could affect our future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2007, backlog reached $2.3 billion. in 2008, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects, and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships, could negatively impact our financial performance, and potentially cause adverse changes in the market price of our outstanding common stock. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by the cyclical nature of their markets and their liquidity. demand for most of our products depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on the general economic conditions and their industries, and the expectations of future market behavior. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies are, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, demand for our products and services from our general industrial customers, such as steel and pulp and paper manufacturers, was negatively impacted by the u.s. recession in the early part of this decade. similarly, in response to high oil and natural gas prices and a weak demand for their products due to a soft economy, our chemical customers reduced their spending on capital investments and operated their facilities at lower levels, reducing demand for our products and services. some of our customers may delay capital maintenance even during favorable conditions in their markets. for example, while high oil prices generally spur demand for our products and services in upstream petroleum markets, they may reduce demand for our products and services from oil refineries, as refiners seek to take advantage of favorable margins by operating at high levels of capacity utilization and deferring maintenance. the diminished demand for our products and services could lead to excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent accelerated erosion of average selling prices in our industry, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, including profit margins, financial condition, and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products are fragmented and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. some of our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. to remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our 15 table of contents market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws. these laws can impose substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties at four superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged fair share allocation has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a potential adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. all such products were used as components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments and/or settlement terms could have a potential adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately 15,000 employees, of which approximately 5,500 were located in the u.s. approximately 7% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees, or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor. no unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality 16 table of contents agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached, and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. furthermore, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our sales, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been excessively volatile. additionally, as well as the prices for energy currently exceed historical averages. we strive to offset our increased costs through our continuous improvement process ( cip ) initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies. if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials to our customers, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected if operational efficiencies are not achieved. to ensure sustained success in cip achievements, constant training and the expansion of cip projects are a vital strategy within our operations. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., the united kingdom, india, japan, mexico and the netherlands, and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in germany, france, austria and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense. we currently expect to make substantial contributions to our u.s. and foreign defined benefit pension plans during the next three years, and may make additional substantial contributions thereafter. in addition, pension reform legislation was passed in late 2006 which included minimum funding requirements effective for 2008. we are reviewing our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with the new law. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. 17 table of contents our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain circumstances, mandatory prepayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes and could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry. in addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; change fiscal year; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted payments; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. in addition, our bank credit facilities contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue acquisitions of businesses that are complementary to ours in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. in addition, acquisition of businesses may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense, and could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may encounter operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the challenges associated with acquisitions include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management attention from our day-to-day operations. 18 table of contents furthermore, no guarantees can be made that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plans, seeks, anticipate, believe, estimate, predicts, potential, continue, intends, or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described under the heading risk factors above, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our business, capital expenditures, dividend payments, debt payments and pension plan contribution obligations and reduce our utilization of accounts receivable factoring arrangements. we seek to continue to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory, and requiring progress billings from customers on long lead time projects. however, the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, backlog, customer acceptance and other factors. in 2008, our capital expenditures are focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, capacity expansion, erp application upgrades, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and are expected to be between approximately $115 million and $125 million, before consideration of any acquisition activity. while current pension regulations allow us latitude in the amount of contributions, we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $30 million in 2008. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $13 million in 2008. we have $5.6 million in scheduled repayments in 2008 under our credit facilities. we expect to comply with the covenants under our credit facilities in 2008. see the liquidity and capital resources section of this md a for further discussion of our debt covenants. as we have discussed in this and prior publicly filed reports, we are currently subject to lawsuits, internal investigations and regulatory investigations in the u.s. and in foreign countries, which could negatively impact our cash flows and results of operations. we believe we are currently dealing with these matters appropriately, and we are diligently striving to achieve the most favorable results. in february 2007, the board of directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.15 a share. additional dividends of $0.15 a share were approved in may, august and november of 2007. each quarter the board of directors will continue to evaluate paying a dividend as a method to return capital to our shareholders. we expect that our corporate representatives will, from time to time, meet privately with investors, investment analysts, the media and others, and may reiterate the forward-looking statements contained in this outlook for 2008 section and elsewhere in this annual report, including any such statements that are incorporated by reference in this annual report. at the same time, we will keep this annual report and our most current business outlook publicly available on our investor relations web site (www.intc.com). the public can continue to rely on the business outlook published on the web site as representing our current expectations on matters covered, unless we publish a notice stating otherwise. statements in the business outlook and other forward-looking statements in this annual report are subject to revision during the course of the year in our quarterly earnings releases and sec filings and at other times. 54 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risks associated with financial instruments we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the operation engaging in the transaction. our risk management and derivatives policy specifies the conditions under which we may enter into derivative contracts. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $464.9 million and $433.7 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding forward contracts with third parties. at december 31, 2007, the length of forward exchange contracts currently in place ranged from 2 days to 20 months. the fair market value adjustments on our forward contracts are recognized directly in our current period earnings. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts at december 31, 2007 and 2006 was a net asset of $6.6 million and $3.4 million, respectively. realized and unrealized gains (losses) from the changes in the fair value of these forward contracts of $5.7 million, $5.8 million, and $(5.2) million, for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are included in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of income. also as part of our risk management program, we enter into interest rate swap agreements to hedge exposure to floating interest rates on certain portions of our debt. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $395.0 million and $435.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties. at december 31, 2007, the maximum remaining length of any interest rate contract in place was approximately 33 months. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements was a net liability of $4.1 million and a net asset of $1.9 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. unrealized (losses) gains from the changes in fair value of our interest rate swap agreements, net of reclassifications, of $(3.9) million and $0.7 million, net of tax, for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are included in other comprehensive income (loss). we are exposed to risk from credit-related losses resulting from nonperformance by counterparties to our financial instruments. we perform credit evaluations of our counterparties under forward contracts and interest rate swap agreements and expect all counterparties to meet their obligations. we have not experienced credit losses from our counterparties. our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2007, after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had $160.4 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 6.4%. a hypothetical change of 100-basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense in 2007 by approximately $1.6 million. 55 table of contents we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential losses in earnings or cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. these strategies also minimize potential gains from favorable exchange rate movements. foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than an entity functional currency and from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2007, a 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations for 2007 by $22.2 million. an analysis of the estimated impact by currency follows (in millions): impact on net currency earnings euro $ 12.2 australian dollar 1.4 singapore dollar 1.1 canadian dollar 1.1 indian rupee 1.1 mexican peso 0.9 british pound 0.9 chinese yuan renminbi 0.6 venezuelan bolivar 0.5 argentinean peso 0.4 brazilian real 0.4 saudi arabian riyal 0.3 swiss franc 0.3 south african rand 0.2 swedish krona 0.2 other 0.6 total $ 22.2 hedging related transactions, recorded to other comprehensive income (expense), net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: other comprehensive income (expense) 2007 2006 2005 (amounts in millions) reclassification to earnings for settlements during the year: forward contracts $ $ 35 $ 125 interest rate swap agreements 1,553 529 1,284 change in fair value: forward contracts 28 interest rate swap agreements (5,458 ) 133 1,547 year ended december 31 $ (3,905 ) $ 697 $ 2,984 we expect to recognize $1.5 million, $1.0 million and $0.1 million, net of deferred taxes, into earnings in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively, related to interest rate swap agreements based on their fair values at december 31, 2007. we incurred foreign currency translation gains (losses) of $48.7 million, $38.9 million and $(34.8) million, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which were recognized in other comprehensive income (expense). the currency gains in 2007 and 2006 primarily reflects the weakening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate, primarily as compared with the euro. the currency loss in 2005 primarily reflects the strengthening of the u.s. dollar exchange rate, primarily as compared with the euro. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors. any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of the domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on the general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and the expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, in response to weak demand for their products due to a soft economy, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, oil and gas prices have recently declined significantly, reflecting the impact of credit market disruptions and its effect on worldwide energy demand, which may negatively impact customers demand for our products. diminished demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs, and subsequent accelerated erosion of average selling prices in our industry, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their markets. recent disruptions in global financial markets and banking systems have made credit and capital markets more difficult for our customers to access, and are generally driving up the costs of newly raised debt. continuing volatility in the credit and capital markets could impair our customers ability to access these markets and increase associated costs, which can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during favorable market conditions. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. prolonged disruptions in financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. continuing volatility in commodity prices, prolonged credit and capital market disruptions and a general slowing of economic growth could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. as has been widely reported, credit and capital markets around the globe have been experiencing increased levels of disruption in recent months, which has included, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, reduced levels of liquidity and credit availability and declining valuations. these disruptions, when combined with the volatility in commodity prices that has also been experienced in recent months, have contributed to a significant 12 table of contents decrease in the rate of general economic growth. while credit and capital market disruptions have not directly had a disproportionate impact on our customer base in general terms, the general slowing of global economic activity can adversely affect the businesses of our customers, which could potentially result in delays or cancellations of orders for our products. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to deliver our significant backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2008, backlog reached $2.8 billion. in 2009, our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are fragmented and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. some of our customers are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their inventory. to remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 55 countries and sell to customers in over 70 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india, latin america and mexico. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates; instability in a specific country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets and the middle east; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; 13 table of contents difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, the military conflict in the middle east could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. additionally, we are investigating or have investigated certain allegations regarding foreign management engaging in unethical practices prohibited by our code of business conduct, which could have inappropriately benefited them at our expense. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as a significant portion of our revenue, and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, singapore dollar, indian rupee, british pound, mexican peso, argentina peso, canadian dollar, swedish krona, chinese yuan, japanese yen and australian dollar. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the argentinean peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations and various programs administered by the united nations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. noncompliance with u.s. export control laws could materially adversely affect our business. in march 2006, we initiated a voluntary process to determine our compliance posture with respect to u.s. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations. upon initial investigation, it appeared that some product transactions and technology transfers were not handled in full compliance with u.s. export control 14 table of contents laws and regulations. as a result, in conjunction with outside counsel, we conducted a voluntary systematic process to further review, validate and voluntarily disclose export violations discovered as part of this review process. we have completed our comprehensive disclosures to the appropriate u.s. government regulatory authorities at the end of 2008, although these disclosures may be refined or supplemented. based on our review of the data collected, during the self-disclosure period of october 1, 2002 through october 1, 2007, a number of process pumps, valves, mechanical seals and parts related thereto were exported, in limited circumstances, without required export or reexport licenses or without full compliance with all applicable rules and regulations to a number of different countries throughout the world, including certain u.s. sanctioned countries. the foregoing information is subject to revision as we further review this submittal with applicable u.s. regulatory authorities. any self-reported violations of u.s. export control laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal penalties, including fines and/or other penalties. we are currently unable to definitively determine the full extent or nature or total amount of penalties to which we might be subject as a result of any such self-reported violations of the u.s. export control laws and regulations. in addition, we are subject to other risks arising from conducting our international business operations. these include, among other things, risks associated with certain of our foreign subsidiaries autonomously making sales and providing related services, under their own local authority, to customers in countries that have been designated by the u.s. state department as state sponsors of terrorism, including iran, syria and sudan. due to the growing political uncertainties associated with these countries, in 2006, our foreign subsidiaries began a voluntary withdrawal, on a phased basis, from conducting new business in these countries. the aggregate amount of all business done by our foreign subsidiaries for customers in iran, syria and sudan accounted for less than 1% of our consolidated global revenue in 2008. while substantially all new business with these countries has been voluntarily phased out, our foreign subsidiaries may independently continue to honor certain existing contracts, commitments and warranty obligations in compliance with u.s. and other applicable laws and regulations. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a major multi-national company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, including the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing military operations in iraq and the middle east at large, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multi-national company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions, and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are currently subject to the appeal of dismissed securities class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. a number of putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, certain of our former officers, our independent auditors and the lead underwriters of our most recent public stock offerings, alleging securities laws violations. by orders dated november 13, 2007 and january 4, 2008, the trial court granted summary judgment in favor of us and all other defendants on all of the plaintiffs claims. the trial court also denied the plaintiffs request for class certification. the plaintiffs have appealed both rulings to the federal fifth circuit court of appeals. the appellate briefing is complete and oral argument occurred in february 2009. while we strongly believe that any appeal or other effort by the plaintiffs to overturn the trial court denial of class certification or entry of judgment would be without merit, and intends to oppose any such effort vigorously, we cannot determine with certainty the outcome or resolution of any effort to overturn these rulings. if the plaintiffs were successful in overturning the judgment and 15 table of contents the case proceeded anew in the trial court, we could not determine with certainty the outcome of the plaintiffs claims or the timing for their resolution. in addition to the expense and burden we would incur in defending this litigation and any damages that we could suffer, our management efforts and attention could be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. if the final resolution of this litigation was unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage was unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter. environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws. these laws can impose substantial sanctions for violations or operational changes. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at two superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged fair share allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a large number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments and/or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2008, we had more than 15,000 employees, of which approximately 6,000 were located in the u.s. approximately 7% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, belgium, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, sweden, switzerland and the united kingdom. no unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. 16 table of contents inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement on our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. furthermore, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been excessively volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through our continuous improvement process ( cip ) initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected if operational efficiencies are not achieved. to ensure sustained success in cip achievements, constant training and the expansion of cip projects are a vital strategy within our operations. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., india, japan, mexico, the netherlands and the united kingdom, and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. the performance of global financial markets in 2008 has reduced the value of investments held in trust to support pension plans. additionally, u.s. regulations are continually increasing the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans. the combined impact of these changes will require us to increase our contributions to our pension plans in 2009, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may 17 table of contents not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carry forwards, net operating losses, and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $207 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized, we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry. in addition, the agreements governing our bank credit facilities impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; change fiscal year; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt, make investments and other restricted payments; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. in addition, our bank credit facilities contain covenants requiring us to deliver to lenders leverage and interest coverage financial covenant certificates of compliance and our audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. in addition, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense, and could result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would 18 table of contents otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management attention from our day-to-day operations. furthermore, no guarantees can be made that we will realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plans, forecasts, targets, seeks, anticipate, believe, estimate, predicts, potential, continue, intends, or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this risk factors heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our business, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2009. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory, and requiring progress payments from customers on long lead time projects. however, the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, backlog, customer acceptance and other factors. additionally, tightening in our end markets may limit our ability to require progress payments from customers on new orders. in 2009, our capital expenditures will be focused on strategic initiatives to pursue new markets, geographic expansion, erp application upgrades, information technology infrastructure and cost reduction opportunities and are expected to be approximately $100 million, before consideration of any acquisition activity. we have $5.7 million in scheduled repayments in 2009 under our credit facilities. we expect to comply with the covenants under our credit facilities in 2009. see the liquidity and capital resources section of this md a for further discussion of our debt covenants. the performance of global financial markets in 2008 has reduced the value of investments held in trust to support pension plans. additionally, u.s. regulations are continually increasing the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans. the combined impact of these changes will require us to increase our contributions to our pension plans in 2009. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be between $55 million and $75 million in 2009 in order to reach fully funded status, as defined by the pension protection act, for 2009. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $13 million in 2009. as we have discussed in this and other public filings, we are currently subject to lawsuits, internal investigations and regulatory investigations in the u.s. and in foreign countries, which could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. we believe we are currently addressing these matters appropriately, and we are diligently striving to achieve the most favorable results. see item 3. legal proceedings in this annual report for further discussion. we expect that our corporate representatives will, from time to time, meet privately with investors, investment analysts, the media and others, and may reiterate the forward-looking statements contained in this outlook for 2009 section and elsewhere in this annual report, including any such statements that are incorporated by reference in this annual report. at the same time, we will keep this annual report and our most current business outlook publicly available on the investor relations section of our website (www.flowserve.com). statements in the business outlook and other forward-looking statements in this annual report are subject to revision during the course of the year in our quarterly earnings releases and sec filings and at other times. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our credit facilities, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2008, after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had $164.7 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our credit facilities with a weighted average interest rate of 2.99%. a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $1.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2008. as of december 31, 2008 and 2007, we had $385.0 million and $395.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties with varying maturities through december 2010. 58 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and, therefore, do not hedge these investments. we use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net (losses) gains associated with foreign currency translation of $(125.9) million, $48.7 million and $38.9 million for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which are included in other comprehensive (expense) income. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2008, a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2008 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $38 million, due primarily to the euro. this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed below. we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures, and changes in the fair values of these instruments are included in other income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. as of december 31, 2008, we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $555.7 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in forward exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $464.9 million at december 31, 2007. transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites functional currencies and changes in fair value of certain forward exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net gains of $16.6 million, $6.3 million and $7.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, which is included in other income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. hedging related transactions, recorded to other comprehensive (expense) income, net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: other comprehensive (expense) income 2008 2007 2006 (amounts in thousands) reclassification to earnings for settlements during the year: forward exchange contracts $ $ $ 35 interest rate swap agreements (2,863 ) 1,553 529 change in fair value: forward exchange contracts interest rate swap agreements (1,243 ) (5,458 ) 133 year ended december 31 $ (4,106 ) $ (3,905 ) $ 697 we expect to recognize (losses) gains of $(5.3) million, $(1.8) million and $0.1 million, net of deferred taxes, into earnings in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, related to interest rate swap agreements based on their fair values at december 31, 2008. 59 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risks associated with financial instruments we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we enter into forward contracts to hedge our risks associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies. our risk management and derivatives policy specify the conditions under which we may enter into derivative contracts. as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, we had approximately $75.1 million and $48.6 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding contracts with third parties. as of december 31, 2003, the maximum length of any forward contract currently in place was 17 months. the fair value of outstanding forward contracts at december 31, 2003 and 2002 was an asset of $5.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively. also as part of our risk management program, we enter into interest rate swap agreements to hedge our exposure to floating interest rates on certain portions of our debt. as of december 31, 2003 and 2002, we had $215.0 million and $125.0 million, respectively, of notional amount in outstanding interest rate swaps with third parties. as of december 31, 2003, the maximum length of any interest rate contract currently in place was approximately three years. at december 31, 2003 and 2002, the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements was a liability of $7.6 million and $9.8 million, respectively. we are exposed to risk from credit-related losses resulting from nonperformance by counterparties to our financial instruments. we perform credit evaluations of our counterparties under forward contracts and interest rate swap agreements and expect all counterparties to meet their obligations. we have not experienced credit losses from our counterparties. our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our credit facility, which bears interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2003, after the effect of interest rate swaps, we had approximately $462.7 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 3.9%. a hypothetical change of 100-basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by approximately $4.6 million for 2003. we employ a foreign currency hedging strategy to minimize potential losses in earnings or cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. these strategies also minimize potential gains from favorable exchange rate movements. foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than an entity's functional currency and from foreign-denominated revenues and profits translated back into u.s. dollars. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2003, a 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations by $6.1 million. 41 an analysis of the estimated impact by currency follows: currency net impact on income euro $ 1.3 british pound 0.2 canadian dollar 0.3 mexican peso 0.5 argentinean peso 0.3 indian rupee 0.7 brazilian real 0.2 singapore dollar 0.2 swiss franc 1.3 swedish krona 0.3 venezuelan bolivar 0.2 other 0.6 total $ 6.1 we adopted sfas no. 133, "accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities," as amended, on january 1, 2001. in accordance with the transition provisions of sfas 133, we recorded a net $0.8 million cumulative-effect adjustment in other comprehensive income representing the fair value of hedging instruments as of january 1, 2001 after deferred tax of $0.5 million. hedging related transactions, recorded to other comprehensive income (expense), net of deferred taxes, are summarized below: other comprehensive income (expense) (amounts in thousands) 2003 (1) 2002 (1) 2001 (1) recognize fair value at january 1, 2001: interest rate swap agreements $ $ $ (1,355 ) forward contracts 2,195 reclassification to earnings for settlements during the year: interest rate swap agreements 3,014 4,336 1,205 forward contracts (2,074 ) 177 660 change in fair value: interest rate swap agreements (1,574 ) (6,603 ) (3,790 ) forward contracts 1,523 1,929 (3,060 ) year ended december 31 $ 889 $ (161 ) $ (4,145 ) (1) utilizing an income tax rate of approximately 37% comprised of the effective rates in each taxing jurisdiction. the following amounts net of deferred taxes represent the expected recognition into earnings for hedging contracts: (amounts in millions) interest rate swap forward contracts total 2004 $ (2.6 ) $ 3.3 $ 0.7 2005 (1.4 ) 0.1 (1.3 ) 2006 (1.0 ) (1.0 ) 2007 2008 thereafter total $ (5.0 ) $ 3.4 $ (1.6 ) we incurred foreign currency translation gains (losses) of $36.8 million in 2003, $23.3 million in 2002 and $(40.1) million in 2001. the currency gains in 2003 and 2002 primarily reflect strengthening of the euro versus the u.s. dollar. the currency losses in 2001 were the result of a general strengthening of the u.s. dollar versus the euro and other currencies of our foreign subsidiaries. euro conversion on january 1, 2002, euro-denominated bills and coins were issued and 11 european union member states (germany, france, the netherlands, austria, italy, spain, finland, ireland, belgium, portugal and luxembourg) adopted the euro as their common national currency whereby only the euro is accepted as legal currency tender. our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows were not materially impacted by the euro conversion. 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk;risk factors 12 risk factors" of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2017 ("annual report"). for information on our sales and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in "item 8. financial statements and supplementary data" ("item 8") of this annual report. we conduct our operations through three business segments based on type of product and how we manage the business: engineered product division ("epd") for long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems and replacement parts and related services; 1 industrial product division ("ipd") for engineered and pre-configured industrial pumps and pump systems and related products and services; and flow control division ("fcd") for engineered and industrial valves, control valves, actuators and controls and related services. our business segments share a focus on industrial flow control technology and benefit from our global footprint and our economies of scale in reducing administrative and overhead costs to serve customers more cost effectively. epd and ipd have a high number of common customers and complementary product offerings and technologies that are often combined in applications that provide us a net competitive advantage. all segments share certain resources and functions, including elements of research and development ("r&amp;d"), supply chain, safety, quality assurance and administrative functions that provide efficiencies and an overall lower cost structure. our operations leadership reports to our chief executive officer and the segments share leadership for operational support functions such as r&amp;d, marketing and supply chain. we believe this leadership structure positions the company to leverage operational excellence, cost reduction initiatives and internal synergies across our entire operating platform to drive further growth and increase shareholders' value. strategies our overarching objectives are to be a leader in each of the market segments we serve and become the employer of choice in the flow control industry. additionally, we seek to be recognized by our customers as the most trusted brand in terms of reliability and quality, which we believe will help maximize shareholder value. in pursuit of these objectives, we maintain a rolling, five-year strategic plan that takes a balanced approach to integrating both short-term and long-term initiatives in four key areas: people, process &amp; technology, customer and finance. people with the goal of developing and maintaining a people-first culture that produces the finest talent, we focus on several elements in our strategic efforts to continuously enhance our organizational capability, including: (i) fully committing to providing a safe work environment for all our associates, worldwide, (ii) upholding a high-performance workforce, that is empowered, accountable, and flexible, (iii) becoming the employer of choice by fostering a people-first culture and (iv) recruiting, developing, and retaining a global and diverse workforce. process and technology with the goal of improving our productivity and delivering a continuous stream of innovating solutions to our customers, we focus on select strategies relating to: (i) developing and maintaining an enterprise-first business approach across all operating units and functional organizations, (ii) simplifying our business processes and optimizing corporate structural costs, (iii) significantly reducing our product cost and rationalizing our product portfolio and (iv) becoming the technical leader in the flow control industry. customer with the goal of achieving the highest level of customer satisfaction amongst our peers, we focus on select strategies related to rigorous and disciplined selection of target markets and customers, while maintaining competitive lead times and emphasizing the highest levels of on-time delivery and quality. we seek to provide an outstanding experience for our customers over the entire product lifecycle by providing unique, integrated flow-control solutions that solve real-world application problems in our customers' facilities. finance with the goal of growing the value of our enterprise, we focus on select strategies we believe will increase our revenue above the rate of market growth, while optimizing performance in terms of gross margin, selling, general and administrative ("sg&amp;a") expense, operating margin, cash flow and primary working capital. competition despite consolidation activities in past years, the markets for our products remain highly competitive, with primary competitive drivers being price, reputation, project management, timeliness of delivery, quality, proximity to service centers 2 and technical expertise, as well as contractual terms and previous installation history. in the pursuit of large capital projects, competitive drivers and competition vary depending on the industry and products involved. industries experiencing slow growth generally tend to have a competitive environment more heavily influenced by price due to supply outweighing demand, and price competition tends to be more significant for original equipment orders than aftermarket services. considering the current forecasts for 2018 , pricing for original equipment orders may continue to be a particularly influential competitive factor. the unique competitive environments in each of our three business segments are discussed in more detail under the business segments heading below. in the aftermarket portion of our business, we compete against large, well-established national and global competitors and, in some markets, against regional and local companies. in the oil and gas and chemical industries, the primary competitors for aftermarket services tend to be customers' own in-house capabilities. in the nuclear power generation industry, we possess certain competitive advantages due to our "n stamp" certification, which is a prerequisite to serve customers in that industry, as well as our considerable base of proprietary knowledge. aftermarket competition for standardized products is aggressive due to the existence of common standards allowing for easier replacement or repair of the installed products. in the sale of aftermarket products and services, we benefit from our large installed base of pumps, valves and seals, which continually require maintenance, repair and replacement parts due to the nature of the products and the conditions under which they operate. timeliness of delivery, quality and the proximity of service centers are important customer considerations when selecting a provider for aftermarket products and services. in geographic regions where we are locally positioned to provide a quick response, customers have traditionally relied on us, rather than our competitors, for aftermarket products relating to our highly-engineered and customized products, although we are seeing increased competition in this area. generally, our customers attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase, thereby reducing the size and diversity of their supply chain. although vendor reduction programs could adversely affect our business, we have been successful in establishing long-term supply agreements with a number of customers. while the majority of these agreements do not provide us with exclusive rights, they can provide us a "preferred" status with our customers and thereby increase opportunities to win future business. we also utilize our lifecycle advantage program to establish fee-based contracts to manage customers' aftermarket requirements. these programs provide an opportunity to manage the customer's installed base and expand the business relationship with the customer. our ability to use our portfolio of products, solutions and services to meet customer needs is a competitive strength. our market approach is to create value for our customers throughout the life cycle of their investments in flow control management. we continue to explore and develop potential new offerings in conjunction with our customers. in the early phases of project design, we endeavor to create value in optimizing the selection of equipment for the customer's specific application, as we are capable of providing technical expertise on product and system capabilities even outside the scope of our specific products, solutions and services. after the equipment is constructed and delivered to the customer's site, we continue to create value through our aftermarket capabilities by optimizing the performance of the equipment over its operational life. our skilled service personnel can provide these aftermarket services for our products, as well as many competitors' products, within the installed base. this value is further enhanced by the global reach of our qrcs and, when combined with our other solutions for our customers' flow control management needs, allows us to create value for our customers during all phases of the capital and operating expenditure cycles. new product development we spent $38.6 million , $42.8 million and $45.9 million during 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, on company-sponsored r&amp;d initiatives. our r&amp;d group consists of engineers involved in new product development and improvement of existing products. additionally, we sponsor consortium programs for research with various universities and jointly conduct limited development work with certain vendors, licensees and customers. we believe our r&amp;d expenditures are adequate to sustain our ongoing and necessary future product development. in addition, we work closely with our customers on customer-sponsored research activities to help execute their r&amp;d initiatives in connection with our products and services. new product development in each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. customers we sell to a wide variety of customers globally including leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users in several distinct industries: oil and gas, chemical, power generation, water management and general industries. we do not believe we have sales to any individual customer that represent 10% or more of consolidated 2017 revenues. customer information relating to each of our three business segments is discussed in more detail under the "business segments" heading below. 3 we are not normally required to carry unusually high amounts of inventory to meet customer delivery requirements, although higher backlog levels and longer lead times generally require higher amounts of inventory. we typically require advance cash payments from customers on longer lead time projects to help offset our investment in inventory. we have initiated programs targeted at improving our operational effectiveness to reduce our overall working capital needs. while we do provide cancellation policies through our contractual relationships, we generally do not provide rights of product return for our customers. selling and distribution we primarily distribute our products through direct sales by employees assigned to specific regions, industries or products. in addition, we use distributors and sales representatives to supplement our direct sales force in countries where it is more appropriate due to business practices or customs, or whenever the use of direct sales staff is not economically efficient. we generate a majority of our sales leads through existing relationships with vendors, customers and prospects or through referrals. intellectual property we own a number of trademarks and patents relating to the names and designs of our products. we consider our trademarks and patents to be valuable assets of our business. in addition, our pool of proprietary information, consisting of know-how and trade secrets related to the design, manufacture and operation of our products, is considered particularly valuable. accordingly, we take proactive measures to protect such proprietary information. we generally own the rights to the products that we manufacture and sell and are unencumbered by licensing or franchise agreements. our trademarks can typically be renewed indefinitely as long as they remain in use, whereas our existing patents generally expire 10 to 20 years from the dates they were filed, which has occurred at various times in the past. we do not believe that the expiration of any individual patent will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. raw materials the principal raw materials used in manufacturing our products are readily available and include ferrous and non-ferrous metals in the form of bar stock, machined castings, fasteners, forgings and motors, as well as silicon, carbon faces, gaskets and fluoropolymer components. a substantial volume of our raw materials is purchased from outside sources, and we have been able to develop a robust supply chain and anticipate no significant shortages of such materials in the future. we continually monitor the business conditions of our suppliers to manage competitive market conditions and to avoid potential supply disruptions. we continue to expand global sourcing to capitalize on localization in emerging markets and low-cost sources of purchased goods balanced with efficient consolidated and compliant logistics. metal castings used in the manufacture of our pump, valve, and mechanical seals are purchased from qualified and approved foundry sources. we remain vertically integrated with metal castings in certain strategic product families. concerning the products we supply to customers in the nuclear power generation industry, suppliers of raw materials for nuclear power generation markets must be qualified to meet the requirements of nuclear industry standards and governmental regulations. supply channels for these materials are currently adequate, and we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining such materials in the future. employees and labor relations we have approximately 17,000 employees globally as of december 31, 2017 . in the united states ("u.s."), a portion of the hourly employees at our pump manufacturing plant located in vernon, california, our valve manufacturing plant located in lynchburg, virginia and our pattern storage facility located in dayton, ohio, are represented by unions. additionally, some employees at select facilities in the following countries are unionized or have employee works councils: argentina, australia, austria, brazil, finland, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, south africa, sweden and the united kingdom ("u.k."). we believe relations with our employees throughout our operations are generally satisfactory, including those employees represented by unions and employee works councils. no unionized facility accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated 2017 revenues. environmental regulations and proceedings we are subject to environmental laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we have operating facilities. these requirements primarily relate to the generation and disposal of waste, air emissions and waste water discharges. we periodically 4 make capital expenditures to enhance our compliance with environmental requirements, as well as to abate and control pollution. at present, we have no plans for any material capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at any of our facilities. however, we have incurred and continue to incur operating costs relating to ongoing environmental compliance matters. based on existing and proposed environmental requirements and our anticipated production schedule, we believe that future environmental compliance expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. during the due diligence phase of our acquisitions, we conduct environmental site assessments to identify potential environmental liabilities and required clean-up measures. we are currently conducting follow-up investigation and/or remediation activities at those locations where we have known environmental concerns. we have cleaned up a majority of the sites with known historical contamination and are addressing the remaining identified issues. over the years, we have been involved as one of many potentially responsible parties ("prp") at former public waste disposal sites that are or were subject to investigation and remediation. we are currently involved as a prp at five superfund sites. the sites are in various stages of evaluation by government authorities. our total projected "fair share" cost allocation at these five sites is expected to be immaterial. see "item 3. legal proceedings" included in this annual report for more information. we have established reserves that we currently believe to be adequate to cover our currently identified on-site and off-site environmental liabilities. exports our export sales from the u.s. to foreign unaffiliated customers were $258.3 million in 2017 , $259.1 million in 2016 and $295.6 million in 2015 . licenses are required from u.s. and other government agencies to export certain products. in particular, products with nuclear power generation and/or military applications are restricted, as are certain other pump, valve and seal products. business segments in addition to the business segment information presented below, note 16 to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report contains additional financial information about our business segments and geographic areas in which we have conducted business in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . engineered product division our largest business segment is epd, through which we design, manufacture, distribute and service specialty, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems, mechanical seals, auxiliary systems, replacement parts, upgrades and related aftermarket services. epd includes longer lead time, highly-engineered specialty pump products and systems and mechanical seals that are generally manufactured within shorter lead times. epd also manufactures replacement pumps, part upgrades and provides a full array of replacement parts, repair and support services (collectively referred to as "aftermarket"). epd products and services are primarily used by companies that operate in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical, chemical, water management and other general industries. we market our pump and mechanical seal products through our global sales force and our regional qrcs and service and repair centers or through independent distributors and sales representatives. a portion of our mechanical seal products are sold directly to other original equipment manufacturers for incorporation into their rotating equipment requiring mechanical seals. our engineered pump products are manufactured in a wide range of metal alloys and with a variety of configurations to reliably meet the operating requirements of our customers. mechanical seals are critical to the reliable operation of rotating equipment in that they prevent leakage and emissions of hazardous substances from the rotating equipment and reduce shaft wear on the equipment caused by the use of non-mechanical seals. we also manufacture a gas-lubricated mechanical seal that is used in high-speed compressors for gas pipelines and in the oil and gas production and process markets. our products are currently manufactured at 30 plants worldwide, nine of which are located in europe, nine in north america, seven in asia pacific and five in latin america, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities and/or shared with fcd. we also conduct business through strategic foreign joint ventures. we have six unconsolidated joint ventures that are located in china, india, saudi arabia, south korea and the united arab emirates, where a portion of our products are 5 manufactured, assembled or serviced in these territories. these relationships provide numerous strategic opportunities, including increased access to our current and new markets, access to additional manufacturing capacity and expansion of our operational platform to support best-cost sourcing initiatives and balance capacity demands for other markets. epd products we manufacture more than 40 different active types of pumps and approximately 185 different models of mechanical seals and sealing systems. the following is a summary list of our epd product types and globally recognized brands: epd product types single and multistage between bearings pumps single stage overhung pumps single case axially split api process single case radially split double case positive displacement pumps mechanical seals and seal support systems rotary multiphase dry-running seals rotary screw gas barrier seals standard cartridge seals vertical pumps mixer seals vertical inline compressor seals vertical line shaft seal support systems vertical canned shaft bearing isolators barrier fluids and lubricants specialty products nuclear pumps power recovery dweer nuclear seals power recovery hydro turbine cryogenic pumps energy recovery devices concrete volute pumps hydraulic decoking systems wireless transmitters api slurry pumps ebullator recycle pumps epd brand names bw seals lifecycle advantage byron jackson niigata worthington calder energy recovery devices qrc cameron pacific durametallic pacific weitz fedd wireless pac-seal five star seal readyseal flowserve united centrifugal gaspac western land roller idp wilson-snyder interseal worthington lawrence worthington-simpson epd services we provide engineered aftermarket services through our global network of 123 qrcs, some of which are co-located in manufacturing facilities, in 47 countries. our epd service personnel provide a comprehensive set of equipment services for flow management control systems, including installation, commissioning, repair, advanced diagnostics, re-rate and retrofit 6 programs, machining and comprehensive asset management solutions. we provide asset management services and condition monitoring for rotating equipment through special contracts with many of our customers that reduce maintenance costs. a large portion of epd's service work is performed on a quick response basis, and we offer 24-hour service in all of our major markets. epd new product development our investments in new product r&amp;d continue to focus on increasing the capability of our products as customer applications become more advanced, demanding greater levels of production (i.e., flow and power) and under more extreme conditions (i.e., erosive, corrosive and temperature) beyond the level of traditional technology. we continue to develop innovations that improve product hydraulic performance and our competitive position in the engineered equipment industry, specifically upstream, offshore and downstream applications for the oil and gas market. continued engagement with our end users is exemplified through completion of advancements in high energy designs and high specific-speed hydraulics. as new sources of energy generation are explored, we continue to develop new product designs to support the most critical applications in the power generation market. new designs and qualification test programs continue to support the critical services found in the coal fired, combined cycle, small modular nuclear and concentrated solar power generation plant. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance, reduce costs and the speed at which we can deliver our products. our engineering teams continue to apply and develop sophisticated design technology and methods supporting continuous improvement of our proven technology. additionally, we are incentivizing our operations and tracking the r&amp;d projects more closely, which is leading to broader engagement in developing new products. in 2017 , epd continued to advance our intelligent performance solutions ("ips") insight platform. this platform utilizes a combination of our developed technologies and leading edge technology partners to increase our remote monitoring, diagnostics, asset management and service capabilities for our end-user customers. these technologies include intelligent devices, advanced communication and security protocols, wireless and satellite communications and web-enabled data convergence. additionally, we have been exploring "additive manufacturing" opportunities in our products and auxiliary systems. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material to our business. epd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, major national oil companies, international oil companies, equipment end users in our served markets, other original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical, chemical, water management and general industries. epd competition the pump and mechanical seal industry is highly fragmented, with thousands of competitors globally. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, application knowledge, experience, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include: sulzer pumps; ebara corp.; spx flow, inc.; eagle burgmann, which is a joint venture of two traditional global seal manufacturers, a. w. chesterton co. and aes corp.; john crane inc., a unit of smiths group plc; and weir group plc. the pump and mechanical seal industry continues to undergo considerable consolidation, which is primarily driven by (i) the need to lower costs through reduction of excess capacity and (ii) customers' preference to align with global full service suppliers to simplify their supplier base. despite the consolidation activity, the market remains highly competitive. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the oil and gas, petrochemical, chemical and power generation industries, our large installed base of products, our strong customer relationships, our high technology, our more than 225 years of experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment, our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions and our ability to deliver engineered new seal product orders within 72 hours from the customer's request. 7 epd backlog epd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2017 was $1,027.7 million (including $16.0 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $968.8 million (including $11.7 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2016 . we expect to ship approximately 94% of december 31, 2017 backlog during 2018 . industrial product division through ipd we design, manufacture, pre-test, distribute and service engineered and pre-configured industrial pumps and pump systems, including submersible motors, for variety of markets. our globalized operating platform, low-cost sourcing and continuous improvement initiatives are essential aspects of this business. ipd's standardized, general purpose pump products are primarily utilized by the oil and gas, chemical, water resources, power and general industrial (i.e. mining, steel and paper) industries. our products are currently manufactured in 19 manufacturing facilities, five of which are located in the u.s and eight in europe and six in asia . ipd operates 30 qrcs worldwide, including 19 sites in europe, six in the u.s., three in asia pacific and two in latin america, including those co-located in manufacturing facilities and/or shared with epd. ipd products we manufacture approximately 40 different active types of pumps, which are available in a wide range of metal alloys and non-metallics with a variety of configurations to meet the critical operating demands of our customers. the following is a summary list of our ipd products and globally recognized brands: ipd pump product types overhung between bearings chemical process asme and iso side channel multistage industrial process segmental channel multistage slurry and solids handling split case axially split metallic &amp; lined magnetic drive process split case radially split specialty products vertical ag chem wet pit, double case api &amp; double molten salt pump deepwell submersible pump and motor submersible pump slurry and solids handling thruster sump &amp; cantilever geothermal deepwell barge pump solids handling submersible vacuum systems liquid ring positive displacement lr systems gear dry systems ipd brand names aldrich pleuger &amp; byron jackson durco scienco flowserve sier bath halberg sihi idp tkl innomag western land roller labour worthington meregalli worthington-simpson pacific 8 ipd services we market our pump products through our worldwide sales force, regional service and repair centers through independent distributors and sales representatives. we provide an array of aftermarket services including product installation and commissioning services, seal systems spare parts, repairs, re-rate and upgrade solutions, advanced diagnostics and maintenance solutions through our global network of qrcs. ipd new product development our ipd development projects target product feature enhancements, design improvements and sourcing opportunities that we believe will improve the competitive position of our industrial pump product lines. we will invest in our durco and sihi chemical product platform to expand and enhance our products offered to the global chemical industry. we continue to address our core products with design enhancements to improve performance and the speed at which we can deliver our products. successful new product release of permanent magnet motor technology in our submersible motor products demonstrated improved product efficiency. we will further our energy efficiency initiatives in response to various global governmental directives. cost reduction projects incorporating product rationalization, value engineering, lean manufacturing and overhead reduction continue to be key drivers for ipd. none of these newly developed products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. ipd customers our customer mix is diversified and includes leading epc firms, original equipment manufacturers, distributors and end users. our sales mix of original equipment products and aftermarket products and services diversifies our business and helps mitigate the impact of normal economic cycles on our business. our sales are diversified among several industries, including oil and gas, chemical, water resources, power and general industry industries. ipd competition the industrial pump industry is highly fragmented, with many competitors. we compete, however, primarily with a limited number of large companies operating on a global scale. competition among our closest competitors is generally driven by delivery times, expertise, price, breadth of product offerings, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality. some of our largest industry competitors include itt industries, ksb se &amp; co. kgaa and sulzer pumps. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our extensive range of pumps for the chemical industry, our large installed base, our strong customer relationships, our more than 200 years of legacy experience in manufacturing and servicing pumping equipment and our reputation for providing quality engineering solutions. ipd backlog ipd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2017 was $424.3 million (including $17.3 million of interdivision backlog, which is eliminated and not included in consolidated backlog), compared with $375.6 million (including $14.2 million of interdivision backlog) as of december 31, 2016 . we expect to ship approximately 95% of december 31, 2017 backlog during 2018 . flow control division fcd designs, manufactures, distributes and services a broad portfolio of industrial valve and automation solutions, including isolation and control valves, actuation, controls and related equipment. fcd leverages its experience and application know-how by offering a complete menu of engineering and project management services to complement its expansive product portfolio. fcd products are used to control, direct and manage the flow of liquids and gases and are an integral part of any flow control system. our valve products are most often customized and engineered to perform specific functions within each customer's unique flow control environment. our flow control products are primarily used by companies operating in the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management and general industries. our products are currently manufactured in 22 principal manufacturing facilities, 5 of which are located in the u.s., 10 located in europe and six located in asia pacific. fcd operates 25 qrcs worldwide, including seven sites in europe, nine in north america, seven in asia pacific and two in latin america. 9 fcd products our valve, automation and controls product and solutions portfolio represents one of the most comprehensive in the flow control industry. our products are used in a wide variety of applications, from general service to the most severe and demanding services, including those involving high levels of corrosion, extreme temperatures and/or pressures, zero fugitive emissions and emergency shutdown. our smart valve and diagnostic technologies integrate sensors, microprocessor controls and software into high performance integrated control valves, digital positioners and switchboxes for automated on/off valve assemblies and electric actuators. these technologies permit real-time system analysis, system warnings and remote indication of asset health. these technologies have been developed in response to the growing demand for reduced maintenance, improved process control efficiency and digital communications at the plant level. we are committed to further enhancing the quality of our product portfolio by continuing to upgrade our existing offerings with cutting-edge technologies. our valve automation products encompass a broad range of pneumatic, electric, hydraulic and stored energy actuation designs to take advantage of whatever power source the customer has available. fcd's actuation products can utilize the process fluid flowing through the pipeline as a source of power to actuate the valve. our actuation products also cover one of the widest ranges of output torques in the industry, providing the ability to automate anything from the smallest linear globe valve to the largest multi-turn gate valve. most importantly, fcd combines best-in-class mechanical designs with the latest in digital controls in order to provide complete integrated automation solutions that optimize the combined valve-actuator-controls package. the following is a summary list of our generally available valve and automation products and globally recognized brands: fcd product types valve automation systems electro pneumatic positioners control valves digital positioners ball valves pneumatic positioners gate valves intelligent positioners globe valves electric/electronic actuators check valves pneumatic actuators butterfly valves hydraulic actuators lined plug valves diaphragm actuators lined ball valves direct gas and gas-over-oil actuators lubricated plug valves limit switches non-lubricated plug valves digital communications integrated valve controllers valve and automation repair services diagnostic software fcd brand names accord naf anchor/darling noble alloy argus norbro atomac nordstrom automax pmv durco serck audco edward schmidt armaturen flowserve valbart kammer valtek limitorque worcester controls mccanna/marpac 10 fcd services our service personnel provide comprehensive equipment maintenance services for flow control systems, including advanced diagnostics, repair, installation, commissioning, retrofit programs and field machining capabilities. a large portion of our service work is performed on a quick response basis, which includes 24-hour service in all of our major markets. we also provide in-house repair and return manufacturing services worldwide through our manufacturing facilities. we believe our ability to offer comprehensive, quick turnaround services provides us with a unique competitive advantage and unparalleled access to our customers' installed base of flow control products. fcd new product development our r&amp;d investment is focused on areas that will advance our technological leadership and further differentiate our competitive advantage from a product perspective. investment has been focused on significantly enhancing the digital integration and interoperability of valve top-works (e.g., positioners, actuators, limit switches and associated accessories) with distributed control systems ("dcs"). we continue to pursue the development and deployment of next-generation hardware and software for valve diagnostics and the integration of the resulting device intelligence through the dcs to provide a practical and effective asset management capability for the end user. in addition to developing these new capabilities and value-added services, our investments also include product portfolio expansion and fundamental research in material sciences in order to increase the temperature, pressure and corrosion/erosion-resistance limits of existing products, as well as noise and cavitation reduction. these investments are made by adding new resources and talent to the organization, as well as leveraging the experience of epd and ipd and increasing our collaboration with third parties. we expect to continue our r&amp;d investments in the areas discussed above. none of these newly developed valve products or services required the investment of a material amount of our assets or was otherwise material. fcd customers our customer mix spans several markets, including the chemical, power generation, oil and gas, water management, pulp and paper, mining and other general industries. our product mix includes original equipment and aftermarket parts and services. fcd contracts with a variety of customers, ranging from epc firms, to distributors, end users and other original equipment manufacturers. fcd competition while in recent years the valve market has undergone a significant amount of consolidation, the market remains highly fragmented. some of the largest valve industry competitors include cameron international corp. (a schlumberger company), emerson electric co., general electric co. and crane co. our market research and assessments indicate that the top 10 global valve manufacturers collectively comprise less than 15% of the total valve market. based on independent industry sources, we believe that we are the third largest industrial valve supplier in the world. we believe that our strongest sources of competitive advantage rest with our comprehensive portfolio of valve products and services, our focus on execution and our expertise in severe corrosion and erosion applications. fcd backlog fcd's backlog of orders as of december 31, 2017 was $617.4 million , compared with $584.5 million as of december 31, 2016 . we expect to ship approximately 87% of december 31, 2017 backlog during 2018 . available information we maintain an internet web site at www.flowserve.com. our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 are made available free of charge through the investor relations section of our internet web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). also available on our internet web site are our corporate governance guidelines for our board of directors and code of ethics and business conduct, as well as the charters of the audit, finance, organization and compensation and corporate governance and nominating committees of our board of directors and other important governance documents. all of the 11 foregoing documents may be obtained through our internet web site as noted above and are available in print without charge to shareholders who request them. information contained on or available through our internet web site is not incorporated into this annual report or any other document we file with, or furnish to, the sec. item 1a. risk factors any of the events discussed as risk factors below may occur. if they do, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. while we believe all known material risks are disclosed, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our business depends on the levels of capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers, which in turn are affected by numerous factors, including the state of domestic and global economies, global energy demand, the cyclical nature of their markets, their liquidity and the condition of global credit and capital markets. demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. the level of capital expenditures by our customers depends, in turn, on general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by factors independent of the conditions in their industry, such as the condition of global credit and capital markets. the businesses of many of our customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. our customers in these industries, particularly those whose demand for our products and services is primarily profit-driven, historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. for example, our chemical customers generally tend to reduce their spending on capital investments and operate their facilities at lower levels in a soft economic environment, which reduces demand for our products and services. additionally, fluctuating energy demand forecasts and lingering uncertainty concerning commodity pricing, specifically the price of oil, can cause our customers to be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in our industry. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, some of our customers may delay capital investment and maintenance even during favorable conditions in their industries or markets. despite these favorable conditions, the general health of global credit and capital markets and our customers' ability to access such markets may impact investments in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades. in addition, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact capital investment decisions and their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in commodity prices, effects from credit and capital market conditions and global economic growth forecasts could prompt customers to delay or cancel existing orders, which could adversely affect the viability of our backlog and could impede our ability to realize revenues on our backlog. our backlog represents the value of uncompleted customer orders. while we cannot be certain that reported backlog will be indicative of future results, our ability to accurately value our backlog can be adversely affected by numerous factors, including the health of our customers' businesses and their access to capital, volatility in commodity prices (e.g., copper, nickel, stainless steel) and economic uncertainty. while we attempt to mitigate the financial consequences of order delays and cancellations through contractual provisions and other means, if we were to experience a significant increase in order delays or cancellations that can result from the aforementioned economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, it could impede or delay our ability to realize anticipated revenues on our backlog. such a loss of anticipated revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 12 we may be unable to deliver our backlog on time, which could affect our revenues, future sales and profitability and our relationships with customers. at december 31, 2017 , backlog was $2.0 billion . in 2018 , our ability to meet customer delivery schedules for backlog is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, sufficient manufacturing plant capacity, adequate supply channel access to the raw materials and other inventory required for production, an adequately trained and capable workforce, project engineering expertise for certain large projects and appropriate planning and scheduling of manufacturing resources. many of the contracts we enter into with our customers require long manufacturing lead times and contain penalty clauses related to on-time delivery. failure to deliver in accordance with customer expectations could subject us to financial penalties, may result in damage to existing customer relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sell our products in highly competitive markets, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. the markets for our products and services are geographically diverse and highly competitive. we compete against large and well-established national and global companies, as well as regional and local companies, low-cost replicators of spare parts and in-house maintenance departments of our end-user customers. we compete based on price, technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, contractual terms, previous installation history and reputation for quality and reliability. competitive environments in slow-growth industries and for original equipment orders have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions and current economic forecasts suggest that the competitive influence of pricing has broadened. additionally, some of our customers have been attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to reduce the size and diversity of their supply chain. to remain competitive, we must invest in manufacturing, technology, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. no assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. if we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, which could limit our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. the success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring these products and services to market. if we are unable to obtain raw materials at favorable prices, our operating margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. we purchase substantially all electric power and other raw materials we use in the manufacturing of our products from outside sources. the costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. in recent years, the prices for energy, metal alloys, nickel and certain other of our raw materials have been volatile. while we strive to offset our increased costs through supply chain management, contractual provisions and our cip initiative, where gains are achieved in operational efficiencies, our operating margins and results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected if we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers or operational efficiencies are not achieved. economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. a substantial portion of our operations is conducted and located outside the u.s. we have manufacturing, sales or service facilities in more than 50 countries and sell to customers in over 90 countries, in addition to the u.s. moreover, we primarily outsource certain of our manufacturing and engineering functions to, and source our raw materials and components from, china, eastern europe, india and latin america. accordingly, our business and results of operations are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including: 13 instability in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly economic conditions in europe, and political conditions in russia, the middle east, asia, north africa, latin america and other emerging markets; trade protection measures, such as tariff increases, and import and export licensing and control requirements; political or economic instability relating to the recent brexit referendum in the united kingdom; uncertainties related to any geopolitical, economic and regulatory effects or changes due to the 2016 u.s. presidential election; potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or tax examinations; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; increased aging and slower collection of receivables, particularly in latin america and other emerging markets; difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; differing and, in some cases, more stringent labor regulations; potentially negative consequences from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; partial or total expropriation; differing protection of intellectual property; inability to repatriate income or capital; and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies, which may be different than the customary business practices of local cultures. for example, political unrest or work stoppages could negatively impact the demand for our products from customers in affected countries and other customers, such as u.s. oil refineries, that could be affected by the resulting disruption in the supply of crude oil. similarly, military conflicts in russia, the middle east, asia and north africa could soften the level of capital investment and demand for our products and services. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures. our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. any of these factors could, however, materially adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations, both internationally and domestically. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes, without limitation, regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various foreign governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. there may be uncertainty as to the position the u.s. will take with respect to world affairs and events following the 2016 u.s. presidential election and related change in the u.s. political agenda. this uncertainty may relate to such issues as the administration's support or plans for new or existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries, such as the january 2017 u.s. withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership, which may affect restrictions or tariffs imposed on products we buy or sell. these factors, together with other key global events during 2017 (such as the continuing uncertainty arising from the 14 brexit transition, as well as ongoing terrorist activity), may adversely impact the ability or willingness of non-u.s. companies to transact business in the u.s. this uncertainty may also affect regulations and trade agreements affecting u.s. companies, global stock markets (including the nyse, on which our common shares are traded), currency exchange rates, and general global economic conditions. all of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. in addition, the company is currently analyzing the impact of the december 2017 passage of the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the act ) in the united states, which significantly changed u.s. tax law and affects, among other items, the company's u.s. federal income tax rate, previously unremitted foreign earnings and valuations of deferred tax assets and liabilities. the company included reasonable estimates of the income tax effects in applying the provisions of the act in accordance with accounting standards codification topic 740, income taxes (asc topic 740) and following the guidance in sec staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ( sab 118 ). the impacts from the act may differ, primarily related to deemed repatriated earnings and associated withholding taxes, from these provisional amounts, possibly materially, due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes from interpretations enacted and assumptions the company has made, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and actions the company may take as a result of the act. as a result, this (and other) tax legislation could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our international operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies to which we have exposure are the euro, british pound, mexican peso, brazilian real, indian rupee, japanese yen, singapore dollar, argentine peso, canadian dollar, australian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, chilean peso and south african rand. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure, such as the venezuelan bolivar and argentine peso, have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow, generate local currency losses that may impact our ability to pay future dividends from our subsidiary to the parent company and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws and regulations. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, such as the uk bribery act, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. because we operate in many parts of the world and sell to industries that have experienced corruption to some degree, our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide. if we are found to be in violation of the fcpa or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business. terrorist acts, conflicts and wars may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our common stock. as a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to terrorist acts, conflicts and wars, wherever located around the world. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars, such as the israeli-hamas conflict and ongoing instability in syria and egypt, have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the u.s., actions against or by the u.s. may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and pose risks to our employees, resulting in the need to impose travel restrictions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations and properties are subject to regulation under environmental laws, which can impose substantial sanctions for violations. we must conform our operations to applicable regulatory requirements and adapt to changes in such requirements in all countries in which we operate. we use hazardous substances and generate hazardous wastes in many of our manufacturing and foundry operations. most of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes, and some may require clean-up of historical contamination. we are currently conducting investigation and/or remediation activities at a number of locations where we have known environmental concerns. in addition, we have been identified as one of many prps at five superfund sites. the projected cost of remediation at these sites, as well as our alleged "fair share" allocation, while not anticipated to be material, has been reserved. however, until all studies have been completed and the parties have either negotiated an amicable resolution or the matter has been judicially resolved, some degree of uncertainty remains. we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating and capital costs to comply with environmental requirements. in addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities. moreover, environmental and sustainability initiatives, practices, rules and regulations are under increasing scrutiny of both governmental and non-governmental bodies, which can cause rapid change in operational practices, standards and expectations and, in turn, increase our compliance costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. many scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. the u.s. congress, state and foreign legislatures and federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies have been considering legislation and regulatory proposals that would regulate and limit greenhouse gas emissions. it is uncertain whether, when and in what form mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. similarly, certain countries have adopted the kyoto protocol and/or the paris climate agreement and these and other existing international initiatives or those under consideration could affect our international operations. to the extent our customers, particularly those involved in the oil and gas, power generation, petrochemical processing or petroleum refining industries, are subject to any of these or other similar proposed or newly enacted laws and regulations, we are exposed to risks that the additional costs by customers to comply with such laws and regulations could impact their ability or desire to continue to operate at similar levels in certain jurisdictions as historically seen or as currently anticipated, which could negatively impact their demand for our products and services. in addition, new laws and regulations that might favor the increased use of non-fossil fuels, including nuclear, wind, solar and bio-fuels or that are designed to increase energy efficiency, could dampen demand for oil and gas production or power generation resulting in lower spending by customers for our products and services. these actions could also increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for raw materials and transportation. because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are party to asbestos-containing product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are a defendant in a substantial number of lawsuits that seek to recover damages for personal injury allegedly resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products formerly manufactured and/or distributed by us. such products were used as internal components of process equipment, and we do not believe that there was any significant emission of asbestos-containing fibers during the use of this equipment. although we are defending these allegations vigorously and believe that a high percentage of these lawsuits are covered by insurance or indemnities from other companies, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that coverage or payments made by insurance or such other companies would be adequate. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 17,000 employees, of which approximately 5,000 were located in the u.s. approximately 5% of our u.s. employees are represented by unions. we also have unionized employees or employee work councils in argentina, australia, austria, brazil, finland, france, germany, india, italy, japan, mexico, the netherlands, spain, south africa, sweden and the u.k. no individual unionized facility produces more than 10% of our revenues. although we believe that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory and we have not experienced any material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not in the future experience these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works councils, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. our ability to implement our business strategy and serve our customers is dependent upon the continuing ability to employ talented professionals and attract, train, develop and retain a skilled workforce. we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to effectively replace the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce as workers retire. without a properly skilled and experienced workforce, our costs, including productivity costs and costs to replace employees may increase, and this could negatively impact our earnings. we depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key executive officers and personnel. the loss of the services of any key individual could harm our business. our future success also depends on our ability to recruit, retain and engage our personnel sufficiently, both to maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. competition for officers and employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our competitive position. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the foreign countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions changes may have a material effect on the valuation of our obligations under our defined benefit pension plans, the funded status of these plans and our pension expense. we maintain defined benefit pension plans that are required to be funded in the u.s., belgium, canada, india, mexico, the netherlands, switzerland and the u.k., and defined benefit plans that are not required to be funded in austria, france, germany, italy, japan and sweden. our pension liability is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure our pension obligations and, in the case of the plans that are required to be funded, the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. a change in the discount rate can result in a significant increase or decrease in the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported status of our pension plans and our pension expense. significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets can result in increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. this impact may be particularly prevalent where we maintain significant concentrations of specified investments, such as the u.k. equity and fixed income securities in our non-u.s. defined benefit plans. changes in the expected return on plan assets assumption can result in significant changes in our pension expense and future funding requirements. we continually review our funding policy related to our u.s. pension plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. u.s. regulations have increased the minimum level of funding for u.s pension plans in prior years, which has at times required significant contributions to our pension plans. contributions to our pension plans reduce the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes. 17 we may incur material costs as a result of product liability and warranty claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of one of our products results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected. some of our products are designed to support the most critical, severe service applications in the markets that we serve and any failure of such products could result in significant product liability and warranty claims, as well as damage to our reputation in the marketplace. while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. in addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. an unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and our company. warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance, and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed. the recording of increased deferred tax asset valuation allowances in the future or the impact of tax law changes on such deferred tax assets could affect our operating results. we currently have significant net deferred tax assets resulting from tax credit carryforwards, net operating losses and other deductible temporary differences that are available to reduce taxable income in future periods. based on our assessment of our deferred tax assets, we determined, based on projected future income and certain available tax planning strategies, that approximately $134 million of our deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized in the future, and no valuation allowance is currently required for this portion of our deferred tax assets. should we determine in the future that these assets will not be realized we will be required to record an additional valuation allowance in connection with these deferred tax assets and our operating results would be adversely affected in the period such determination is made. in addition, tax law changes could negatively impact our deferred tax assets. our outstanding indebtedness and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness limit our operating and financial flexibility. we are required to make scheduled repayments and, under certain events of default, mandatory repayments on our outstanding indebtedness, which may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, and could generally limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. in addition, the agreements governing our indebtedness impose certain operating and financial restrictions on us and somewhat limit management's discretion in operating our businesses. these agreements limit or restrict our ability, among other things, to: incur additional debt; fully utilize the capacity under the senior credit facility; pay dividends and make other distributions; prepay subordinated debt; make investments and other restricted payments; create liens; sell assets; and enter into transactions with affiliates. we are also required to maintain certain debt ratings, comply with leverage and interest coverage financial covenants and deliver to our lenders audited annual and unaudited quarterly financial statements. our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to continue to expand our market presence through acquisitions, and any future acquisitions may present unforeseen integration difficulties or costs. since 1997, we have expanded through a number of acquisitions, and we may pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses in the future. our ability to implement this growth strategy will be limited by our ability to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, covenants in our credit agreement and other debt agreements and our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. acquisitions may require additional debt financing, resulting in higher leverage and an increase in interest expense. in addition, acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, the amortization of 18 identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. should we acquire another business, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may create operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. some of the more common challenges associated with acquisitions that we may experience include: loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls, including accounting systems and controls, with our operations, which could cause deficiencies related to our internal control over financial reporting; coordinating operations that are increased in scope, geographic diversity and complexity; retooling and reprogramming of equipment; hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and the diversion of management's attention from our day-to-day operations. further, no guarantees can be made that we would realize the cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements that we may anticipate from any acquisition, or that we will realize such benefits within the time frame that we expect. if we are not able to timely address the challenges associated with acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses, or if our integrated product and service offerings fail to achieve market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. goodwill impairment could negatively impact our net income and stockholders' equity. goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. reductions in or impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. there are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. these risks include, but are not limited to, lowered expectations of future financial results, adverse changes in the business climate, increase in the discount rate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, the loss of key personnel, a more-likely-than-not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, a sustained decline in the company's market capitalization, and significant, prolonged negative variances between actual and expected financial results. in recent years, the estimated fair value of epo and ipd have fluctuated, partially due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressures experienced in the oil and gas markets. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our epo and ipd reporting units as of december 31, 2017 , we will continue to monitor their performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment. for additional information, see the discussion in item 7 of this annual report and under note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. cybersecurity threats could disrupt our business and result in the loss of critical and confidential information. our information technology networks and related systems and devices are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations. cybersecurity breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, misuse, or interruption of sensitive and critical information and functions, including our proprietary information and information related to our customers, suppliers and employees. while we devote substantial resources to maintaining adequate levels of cybersecurity, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent all of the rapidly evolving forms of increasingly sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, regulatory actions, theft of intellectual property, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. if we are unable to prevent, detect or adequately respond to security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be materially and adversely affected. if we are not able to successfully execute and realize the expected financial benefits from our strategic realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, our business could be adversely affected. 19 in april 2015, we announced cost saving actions and a strategic manufacturing optimization initiative intended to reduce our cost structure and drive an optimized, low-cost manufacturing footprint. this initiative was expanded throughout 2016 and again in the first half of 2017 to include additional realignment activities that will continue beyond 2017 . this initiative will involve reducing our workforce, accelerating structural changes in our global manufacturing footprint through leveraging investments in low-cost regions, additional consolidation of product manufacturing and further sg&amp;a reductions. while we expect significant financial benefits from our strategic realignment, we may not realize the full benefits that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. adverse effects from our execution of realignment activities could interfere with our realization of anticipated synergies, customer service improvements and cost savings from these strategic initiatives. additionally, our ability to fully realize the benefits and implement the realignment program may be limited by the terms of our credit facilities and other contractual commitments. moreover, because such expenses are difficult to predict and are necessarily inexact, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the execution of our realignment plans in excess of what is currently forecast. further, realignment activities are a complex and time-consuming process that can place substantial demands on management, which could divert attention from other business priorities or disrupt our daily operations. any of these failures could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could constrain our liquidity. if these measures are not successful or sustainable, we may undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans may be adversely affected, and we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our realignment efforts prove ineffective. ineffective internal controls could impact the accuracy and timely reporting of our business and financial results. our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and financial results could be harmed and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. for example, during its evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 , management concluded that a deficiency in our internal controls related to the control environment primarily related to the operation of certain inventory controls or recording of unsupported manual journal entries at one of the non-u.s. sites and the design and maintenance of effective business performance reviews represented material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, therefore, that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016 . management actively engaged in the planning and implementation of remediation efforts to address these material weaknesses and to strengthen the overall internal control related to the control environment at the one non-u.s. site and the business review controls and believes that such remediation efforts have effectively remediated the material weaknesses. for further description of the prior material weaknesses identified by management and the remediation efforts implemented for the material weaknesses, see part ii, item 9a - controls and procedures. forward-looking information is subject to risk and uncertainty this annual report and other written reports and oral statements we make from time-to-time include forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934 and the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report regarding our financial position, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, industry conditions, market conditions and indebtedness covenant compliance are forward-looking statements. in some cases forward looking statements can be identified by terms such as "may," "should," "expects," "could," "intends," "projects," "predicts," "plans," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "forecasts" or other comparable terminology. these statements are not historical facts or guarantees of future performance, but instead are based on current expectations and are subject to significant risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control. we have identified factors that could cause actual plans or results to differ materially from those included in any forward-looking statements. these factors include those described above under this "risk factors" heading, or as may be identified in our other sec filings from time to time. these uncertainties are beyond our ability to control, and in many cases, it is not possible to foresee or identify all the factors that may affect our future performance or any forward-looking information, and new risk factors can emerge from time to time. given these risks and uncertainties, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 20 all forward-looking statements included in this annual report are based on information available to us on the date of this annual report and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations expressed in this report will increase with the passage of time. we undertake no obligation, and disclaim any duty, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement or disclose any facts, events or circumstances that occur after the date hereof that may affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in our expectations or otherwise. this discussion is provided as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 and all of our forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referenced in this section. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this annual report. we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations and have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt payments and pension plan contributions in 2018 . the amount of cash generated or consumed by working capital is dependent on our level of revenues, customer cash advances, backlog, customer-driven delays and other factors. we seek to improve our working capital utilization, with a particular focus on improving the management of accounts receivable and inventory. in 2018 , our cash flows for investing activities will be focused on strategic initiatives, information technology infrastructure, general upgrades and cost reduction opportunities and we currently estimate capital expenditures to be between $80 million and $90 million , before consideration of any acquisition activity. we have $60.0 million in scheduled principal repayments in 2018 under our term loan facility, and we expect to comply with the covenants under our senior credit facility in 2018 . see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report for further discussion of our debt covenants. we currently anticipate that our minimum contribution to our qualified u.s. pension plan will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid, in 2018 in order to maintain fully-funded status as defined by applicable law. we currently anticipate that our contributions to our non-u.s. pension plans will be approximately $10 million in 2018 , excluding direct benefits paid. effective january 1, 2018, we adopted accounting standards update ("asu") no. 2014-09, "revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606)". a discussion of our adoption of the asu is included in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. contractual obligations and commercial commitments the following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at december 31, 2017 : payments due by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) term loan facility and senior notes: $ 60.0 $ 104.4 $ 1,091.2 $ 297.4 $ 1,553.0 fixed interest payments(1) 37.0 73.9 62.9 10.5 184.3 variable interest payments(2) 4.8 4.0 8.8 other debt and capital lease obligations 15.6 6.6 22.2 operating leases 51.7 66.3 43.6 71.7 233.3 purchase obligations:(3) inventory 407.5 2.5 410.0 non-inventory 36.5 0.7 37.2 pension and postretirement benefits(4) 60.0 119.7 127.2 308.3 615.2 total $ 673.1 $ 378.1 $ 1,324.9 $ 687.9 $ 3,064.0 _______________________________________ (1) fixed interest payments represent interest payments on the senior notes and term loan facility as defined in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. (2) variable interest payments under our term loan facility were estimated using a base rate of three-month libor as of december 31, 2017 . (3) purchase obligations are presented at the face value of the purchase order, excluding the effects of early termination provisions. actual payments could be less than amounts presented herein. (4) retirement and postretirement benefits represent estimated benefit payments for our u.s. and non-u.s. defined benefit plans and our postretirement medical plans, as more fully described below and in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. 42 as of december 31, 2017 , the gross liability for uncertain tax positions was $51.5 million . we do not expect a material payment related to these obligations to be made within the next twelve months. we are unable to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of future payments relating to the uncertain tax positions. the following table presents a summary of our commercial commitments at december 31, 2017 : commitment expiration by period within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years beyond 5 years total (amounts in millions) letters of credit $ 340.0 $ 141.3 $ 24.8 $ 23.2 $ 529.3 surety bonds 93.6 6.8 0.7 0.4 101.5 total $ 433.6 $ 148.1 $ 25.5 $ 23.6 $ 630.8 we expect to satisfy these commitments through performance under our contracts. pension and postretirement benefits obligations plan descriptions we and certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for full-time and part-time employees. approximately 65% of total defined benefit pension plan assets and approximately 53% of defined benefit pension obligations are related to the u.s. qualified plan as of december 31, 2017 . unless specified otherwise, the references in this section are to all of our u.s. and non-u.s. plans. none of our common stock is directly held by these plans. our u.s. defined benefit plan assets consist of a balanced portfolio of equity and fixed income securities. our non-u.s. defined benefit plan assets include a significant concentration of united kingdom ("u.k.") fixed income securities , as discussed in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. we monitor investment allocations and manage plan assets to maintain acceptable levels of risk. at december 31, 2017 , the estimated fair market value of u.s. and non-u.s. plan assets for our defined benefit pension plans increased to $713.5 million from $642.3 million at december 31, 2016 . assets were allocated as follows: u.s. plan asset category 2017 2016 cash and cash equivalents 1 % % u.s. large cap % 20 % u.s. small cap % 4 % international large cap % 14 % emerging markets % 5 % world equity % 8 % global equity 36 % % global real assets 12 % % equity securities 48 % 51 % diversified credit 12 % % liability driven investment 39 % 39 % long-term government/credit % 10 % fixed income 51 % 49 % 43 non-u.s. plans asset category 2017 2016 cash and cash equivalents 3 % 4 % north american companies 3 % 3 % global equity 3 % 8 % equity securities 6 % 11 % u.k. government gilt index 41 % 31 % u.k. corporate bond index 1 % 1 % global fixed income bond 2 % 2 % liability driven investment 9 % 11 % fixed income 53 % 45 % multi-asset 22 % 25 % buy-in contract 10 % 9 % other 6 % 6 % other types 38 % 40 % the projected benefit obligation ("benefit obligation") for our defined benefit pension plans was $875.3 million and $833.5 million as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. benefits under our defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on participants' compensation and years of credited service. the estimated prior service cost and the estimated actuarial net loss for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net pension expense in 2018 is approximately $0.2 million and $9.2 million , respectively. we amortize estimated prior service costs and estimated net losses over the remaining expected service period or over the remaining expected lifetime for plans with only inactive participants. we sponsor defined benefit postretirement medical plans covering certain current retirees and a limited number of future retirees in the u.s. these plans provide for medical and dental benefits and are administered through insurance companies. we fund the plans as benefits are paid, such that the plans hold no assets in any period presented. accordingly, we have no investment strategy or targeted allocations for plan assets. the benefits under the plans are not available to new employees or most existing employees. the benefit obligation for our defined benefit postretirement medical plans was $23.9 million and $27.3 million as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. the estimated actuarial net gain for the defined benefit postretirement medical plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net pension expense in 2018 is $0.5 million . the estimated prior service cost that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into pension expense in 2018 is $0.1 million . we amortize any estimated net gain over the remaining average expected service period of approximately two years . accrual accounting and significant assumptions we account for pension benefits using the accrual method, recognizing pension expense before the payment of benefits to retirees. the accrual method of accounting for pension benefits requires actuarial assumptions concerning future events that will determine the amount and timing of the benefit payments. our key assumptions used in calculating our cost of pension benefits are the discount rate, the rate of compensation increase and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. we, in consultation with our actuaries, evaluate the key actuarial assumptions and other assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension and postretirement benefits, such as discount rates, expected return on plan assets for funded plans, mortality rates, retirement rates and assumed rate of compensation increases, and determine such assumptions as of december 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that date and pension and postretirement expense for the following year. see discussion of our accounting for and assumptions related to pension and postretirement benefits in the our critical accounting estimates section of this md&amp;a. in 2017 , net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in operating income was $35.2 million compared with $37.5 million in 2016 and $40.1 million in 2015 . 44 the following are assumptions related to our defined benefit pension plans as of december 31, 2017 : u.s. plan non-u.s. plans weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation: discount rate 3.63 % 2.25 % rate of increase in compensation levels 4.01 3.25 weighted average assumptions used to determine 2017 net pension expense: long-term rate of return on assets 6.00 % 3.88 % discount rate 4.00 2.34 rate of increase in compensation levels 4.01 3.22 the following provides a sensitivity analysis of alternative assumptions on the u.s. qualified and aggregate non-u.s. pension plans and u.s. postretirement plans. effect of discount rate changes and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (1.3 ) $ 1.3 effect on benefit obligation (17.2 ) 18.6 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (0.9 ) 1.1 effect on benefit obligation (31.2 ) 33.8 u.s. postretirement medical plans: effect on postretirement medical expense (0.3 ) 0.2 effect on benefit obligation (0.7 ) 0.8 effect of changes in the expected return on assets and constancy of other assumptions: 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease (amounts in millions) u.s. defined benefit pension plan: effect on net pension expense $ (2.0 ) $ 2.0 non-u.s. defined benefit pension plans: effect on net pension expense (1.1 ) 1.1 as discussed below, accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) provide that differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over the average future service of employees. at december 31, 2017 , as compared with december 31, 2016 , we decreased our discount rate for the u.s. plan from 4.00% to 3.63% based on an analysis of publicly-traded investment grade u.s. corporate bonds, which had lower yields due to current market conditions. the average discount rate for the non-u.s. plans decreased from 2.34% to 2.25% based on analysis of bonds and other publicly-traded instruments, by country, which had lower yields due to market conditions . the average assumed rate of compensation remained relatively constant at approximately 4.01% for the u.s. plan and increased to 3.25% from 3.22% for our non-u.s. plans. to determine the 2017 pension expense, the expected rate of return on u.s. plan assets remained constant at 6.00% and we decreased our average rate of return on non-u.s. plan assets from 4.68% to 3.88% , primarily based on our target allocations and expected long-term asset returns. as the expected rate of return on plan assets is long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rate. for all u.s. plans, we adopted the rp-2006 mortality tables and the mp-2017 improvement scale published in october 2017. we applied the rp-2006 tables based on the constituency of our plan population for union and non-union participants. we adjusted the improvement scale to utilize 75% of the ultimate improvement rate, consistent with assumptions adopted by the social security administration trustees, based on long-term historical experience. currently, we believe this approach provides the best estimate of our future obligation. most plan participants elect to receive plan benefits as a lump sum at the end of service, rather than an annuity. as such, the updated mortality tables had an immaterial effect on our pension obligation. 45 we expect that the net pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans included in earnings before income taxes will be approximately $3.7 million lower in 2018 than the $35.2 million in 2017 , primarily due to an increase in expected return on plan assets, a decrease in expected interest cost and no anticipated special events. we have used discount rates of 3.63% , 2.25% and 3.48% at december 31, 2017 , in calculating our estimated 2018 net pension expense for u.s. pension plans, non-u.s. pension plans and postretirement medical plans, respectively. the assumed ranges for the annual rates of increase in health care costs were 7.0% for 2017 and 7.5% for both 2016 and 2015 , with a gradual decrease to 5.0% for 2025 and future years. if actual costs are higher than those assumed, this will likely put modest upward pressure on our expense for retiree health care. plan funding our funding policy for defined benefit plans is to contribute at least the amounts required under applicable laws and local customs. we contributed $44.9 million , $46.8 million and $48.9 million to our defined benefit plans in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. after consideration of our intent to remain fully-funded based on standards set by law, we currently anticipate that our contribution to our u.s. pension plan in 2018 will be approximately $20 million , excluding direct benefits paid. we expect to contribute approximately $10 million to our non-u.s. pension plans in 2018 , excluding direct benefits paid. for further discussion of our pension and postretirement benefits, see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. our critical accounting estimates the process of preparing financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap requires the use of estimates and assumptions to determine reported amounts of certain assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of related contingent assets and liabilities. these estimates and assumptions are based upon information available at the time of the estimates or assumptions, including our historical experience, where relevant. the most significant estimates made by management include: timing and amount of revenue recognition; deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves; reserves for contingent loss; pension and postretirement benefits; and valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. the significant estimates are reviewed at least annually if not quarterly by management. because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements, actual results may differ from the estimates, and the difference may be material. our critical accounting policies are those policies that are both most important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. we believe that the following represent our critical accounting policies. for a summary of all of our significant accounting policies, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. management and our external auditors have discussed our critical accounting estimates and policies with the audit committee of our board of directors. revenue recognition revenues for product sales are recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customers, which is typically based on the contractual delivery terms agreed to with the customer and fulfillment of all but inconsequential or perfunctory actions. in addition, our policy requires persuasive evidence of an arrangement, a fixed or determinable sales price and reasonable assurance of collectibility. we defer the recognition of revenue when advance payments are received from customers before performance obligations have been completed and/or services have been performed. freight charges billed to customers are included in sales and the related shipping costs are included in cos in our consolidated statements of income. our contracts typically include cancellation provisions that require customers to reimburse us for costs incurred up to the date of cancellation, as well as any contractual cancellation penalties. we enter into certain agreements with multiple deliverables that may include any combination of designing, developing, manufacturing, modifying, installing and commissioning of flow management equipment and providing services related to the performance of such products. delivery of these products and services typically occurs within a one to two -year period, although many arrangements, such as "short-cycle" type orders, have a shorter timeframe for delivery . we separate deliverables into units of accounting based on whether the deliverable(s) have standalone value to the customer (impact of general rights of return is immaterial). contract value is allocated ratably to the units of accounting in the arrangement based on their relative selling prices determined as if the deliverables were sold separately. 46 revenues for long-term contracts that exceed certain internal thresholds regarding the size and duration of the project and provide for the receipt of progress billings from the customer are recorded on the percentage of completion method with progress measured on a cost-to-cost basis. percentage of completion revenue represented approximately 4%, 5% and 7% of our consolidated sales as of december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. revenue on service and repair contracts is recognized after services have been agreed to by the customer and rendered. revenues generated under fixed fee service and repair contracts are recognized on a ratable basis over the term of the contract. these contracts can range in duration, but generally extend for up to five years . fixed fee service contracts represent approximately 1% of consolidated sales for each year presented. in certain instances, we provide guaranteed completion dates under the terms of our contracts. failure to meet contractual delivery dates can result in late delivery penalties or non-recoverable costs. in instances where the payment of such costs are deemed to be probable, we perform a project profitability analysis, accounting for such costs as a reduction of realizable revenues, which could potentially cause estimated total project costs to exceed projected total revenues realized from the project. in such instances, we would record reserves to cover such excesses in the period they are determined. in circumstances where the total projected revenues still exceed total projected costs, the incurrence of penalties or non-recoverable costs generally reduces profitability of the project at the time of subsequent revenue recognition. our reported results would change if different estimates were used for contract costs or if different estimates were used for contractual contingencies. effective january 1, 2018, we adopted asu no. 2014-09, "revenue from contracts with customers (topic 606)". a discussion of our adoption of the asu is included in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. deferred taxes, tax valuation allowances and tax reserves we recognize valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of deferred tax assets to amounts that we expect are more likely than not to be realized. our valuation allowances primarily relate to the deferred tax assets established for certain tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards for non-u.s. subsidiaries, and we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by assessing the related valuation allowance and by adjusting the amount of these allowances, if necessary. we assess such factors as our forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the net deferred tax assets in determining the sufficiency of our valuation allowances. failure to achieve forecasted taxable income in the applicable tax jurisdictions could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could result in an increase in our effective tax rate on future earnings. implementation of different tax structures in certain jurisdictions could, if successful, result in future reductions of certain valuation allowances. the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and evaluating tax positions. we establish reserves for open tax years for uncertain tax positions that may be subject to challenge by various tax authorities. the consolidated tax provision and related accruals include the impact of such reasonably estimable losses and related interest and penalties as deemed appropriate. tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from uncertain tax positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. while we believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities. to the extent that the expected tax outcome of these matters changes, such changes in estimate will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determination is made. reserves for contingent loss liabilities are recorded for various contingencies arising in the normal course of business when it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and such loss is estimable. assessments of reserves are based on information obtained from our independent and in-house experts, including recent legal decisions and loss experience in similar situations. the recorded legal reserves are susceptible to changes due to new developments regarding the facts and circumstances of each matter, changes in political environments, legal venue and other factors. recorded environmental reserves could change based on further analysis of our properties, technological innovation and regulatory environment changes. estimates of liabilities for unsettled asbestos-related claims are based on known claims and on our experience during the preceding two years for claims filed, settled and dismissed, with adjustments for events deemed unusual and unlikely to recur. a substantial majority of our asbestos-related claims are covered by insurance or indemnities. estimated indemnities 47 and receivables from insurance carriers for unsettled claims and receivables for settlements and legal fees paid by us for asbestos-related claims are estimated using our historical experience with insurance recovery rates and estimates of future recoveries, which include estimates of coverage and financial viability of our insurance carriers. we have claims pending against certain insurers that, if resolved more favorably than estimated future recoveries, would result in discrete gains in the applicable quarter. we are currently unable to estimate the impact, if any, of unasserted asbestos-related claims, although future claims would also be subject to existing indemnities and insurance coverage. changes in claims filed, settled and dismissed and differences between actual and estimated settlement costs and insurance or indemnity recoveries could impact future expense. pension and postretirement benefits we provide pension and postretirement benefits to certain of our employees, including former employees, and their beneficiaries. the assets, liabilities and expenses we recognize and disclosures we make about plan actuarial and financial information are dependent on the assumptions and estimates used in calculating such amounts. the assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, inflation, expected rates of return on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality rates, turnover, rates of compensation increases and other factors. the assumptions utilized to compute expense and benefit obligations are shown in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. these assumptions are assessed annually in consultation with independent actuaries and investment advisors as of december 31 and adjustments are made as needed. we evaluate prevailing market conditions and local laws and requirements in countries where plans are maintained, including appropriate rates of return, interest rates and medical inflation (health care cost trend) rates. we ensure that our significant assumptions are within the reasonable range relative to market data. the methodology to set our significant assumptions includes: discount rates are estimated using high quality debt securities based on corporate or government bond yields with a duration matching the expected benefit payments. for the u.s. the discount rate is obtained from an analysis of publicly-traded investment-grade corporate bonds to establish a weighted average discount rate. for plans in the u.k. and the eurozone we use the discount rate obtained from an analysis of aa-graded corporate bonds used to generate a yield curve. for other countries or regions without a corporate aa bond market, government bond rates are used. our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term high-quality debt securities, as well as the duration of our plans' liabilities. the expected rates of return on plan assets are derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies, expected long-term performance of asset classes, risks and other factors adjusted for our specific investment strategy. these rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long-term in nature, short-term market changes do not significantly impact the rates. changes to our target asset allocation also impact these rates. the expected rates of compensation increase reflect estimates of the change in future compensation levels due to general price levels, seniority, age and other factors. depending on the assumptions used, the pension and postretirement expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings. in addition, the assumptions can materially affect benefit obligations and future cash funding. actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors. we evaluate the funded status of each retirement plan using current assumptions and determine the appropriate funding level considering applicable regulatory requirements, tax deductibility, reporting considerations, cash flow requirements and other factors. we discuss our funding assumptions with the finance committee of our board of directors. valuation of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets the initial recording of goodwill and intangible assets requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets. we test the value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment as of december 31 each year or whenever events or circumstances indicate such assets may be impaired. the test for goodwill impairment involves significant judgment in estimating projections of fair value generated through future performance of each of the reporting units. the identification of our reporting units began at the operating segment level and considered whether components one level below the operating segment levels should be identified as reporting units for purpose of testing goodwill for impairment based on certain conditions. these conditions included, among other factors, (i) the extent to which a component represents a business and (ii) the aggregation of economically similar components within the operating segments and resulted in four reporting units. other factors that were considered in determining whether the 48 aggregation of components was appropriate included the similarity of the nature of the products and services, the nature of the production processes, the methods of distribution and the types of industries served. an impairment loss for goodwill is recognized if the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value. we estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on an income approach, whereby we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. a discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about future sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates, which are based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and market participants. assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. we did not record an impairment of goodwill in 2017, 2016 or 2015; however, the estimated fair value of our epo and ipd reporting units reduced significantly in 2016 and 2015 due to broad-based capital spending declines and heightened pricing pressure experienced in the oil and gas markets which are anticipated to continue in the near to mid-term. the epo reporting unit is a component of our epd reporting segment and is primarily focused on long lead time, custom and other highly-engineered pumps and pump systems. as of december 31, 2017, our epo reporting unit had approximately $159 million of goodwill and its estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 82% as compared to approximately $156 million of goodwill and its estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 45% as of december 31, 2016. in addition, our ipd reporting unit had approximately $319 million of goodwill and its fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 66% as of december 31, 2017 as compared to approximately $298 million of goodwill and its fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 70% as of december 31, 2016. key assumptions used in determining the estimated fair value of our epo and ipd reporting units included the annual operating plan and forecasted operating results, successful execution of our current realignment programs and identified strategic initiatives, a constant cost of capital, continued stabilization and mid to long-term improvement of the macro-economic conditions of the oil and gas market, and a relatively stable global gross domestic product. a 100 basis point increase in our cost of capital would reduce the estimated fair values of both epo and ipd reporting units by approximately 12%, which coupled with a prolonged down cycle of the oil and gas markets, could potentially put both reporting units' goodwill at risk of a future impairment. although we have concluded that there is no impairment on the goodwill associated with our epo and ipd reporting units as of december 31, 2017, we will continue to closely monitor their performance and related market conditions for future indicators of potential impairment and reassess accordingly. we also consider our market capitalization in our evaluation of the fair value of our goodwill. our market capitalization decreased slightly as compared with 2016 and did not indicate a potential impairment of our goodwill as of december 31, 2017. impairment losses for indefinite-lived intangible assets are recognized whenever the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value. fair values are calculated for trademarks using a "relief from royalty" method, which estimates the fair value of a trademark by determining the present value of estimated royalty payments that are avoided as a result of owning the trademark. this method includes judgmental assumptions about sales growth and discount rates that have a significant impact on the fair value and are substantially consistent with the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units discussed above. we did not record a material impairment of our trademarks in 2017 , 2016 or 2015 . the recoverable value of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, is reviewed when indicators of potential impairments are present. the recoverable value is based upon an assessment of the estimated future cash flows related to those assets, utilizing assumptions similar to those for goodwill. additional considerations related to our long-lived assets include expected maintenance and improvements, changes in expected uses and ongoing operating performance and utilization. due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that forecasts used to support asset carrying values may change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. accounting developments we have presented the information about accounting pronouncements not yet implemented in note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this annual report. 49 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have market risk exposure arising from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate movements. we are exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but we currently expect all counterparties will continue to meet their obligations given their current creditworthiness. interest rate risk our earnings are impacted by changes in short-term interest rates as a result of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which bear interest based on floating rates. at december 31, 2017 , we had $164.4 million of variable rate debt obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility with a weighted average interest rate of 3.19% . a hypothetical change of 100 basis points in the interest rate for these borrowings, assuming constant variable rate debt levels, would have changed interest expense by $1.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . foreign currency exchange rate risk a substantial portion of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries outside of the u.s. in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary currencies in which we operate, in addition to the u.s. dollar, are the argentine peso, australian dollar, brazilian real, british pound, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, colombian peso, euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, mexican peso, singapore dollar, swedish krona, russian ruble, malaysian ringgit and venezuelan bolivar. almost all of our non-u.s. subsidiaries conduct their business primarily in their local currencies, which are also their functional currencies. foreign currency exposures arise from translation of foreign-denominated assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars and from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated transactions, denominated in a currency other than a non-u.s. subsidiary's functional currency. in march 2015, we designated 255.7 million of our 500.0 million 2022 eur senior notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency. generally, we view our investments in foreign subsidiaries from a long-term perspective and use capital structuring techniques to manage our investment in foreign subsidiaries as deemed necessary. we realized net gains (losses) associated with foreign currency translation of $98.8 million , $(72.0) million and $(173.4) million for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, which are included in other comprehensive loss . the net gain in 2017 was primarily driven by the strengthening of the euro, british pound and indian rupee versus the u.s. dollar at december 31, 2017 as compared with december 31, 2016 . we employ a foreign currency risk management strategy to minimize potential changes in cash flows from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. where available, the use of forward exchange contracts allows us to mitigate transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on the forward exchange contracts will offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency exposure. our policy allows foreign currency coverage only for identifiable foreign currency exposures. as of december 31, 2017 , we had a u.s. dollar equivalent of $235.6 million in aggregate notional amount outstanding in foreign exchange contracts with third parties, compared with $393.8 million at december 31, 2016 . transactional currency gains and losses arising from transactions outside of our sites' functional currencies and changes in fair value of non-designated foreign exchange contracts are included in our consolidated results of operations. we recognized foreign currency net (losses) gains of $(14.0) million , $2.8 million and $(37.7) million for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, which are included in other income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. based on a sensitivity analysis at december 31, 2017 , a 10% change in the foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended december 31, 2017 would have impacted our net earnings by approximately $7 million . this calculation assumes that all currencies change in the same direction and proportion relative to the u.s. dollar and that there are no indirect effects, such as changes in non-u.s. dollar sales volumes or prices. this calculation does not take into account the impact of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts discussed above. 50