risk factors 8 risk factors. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. while the north american housing market stabilized during 2010 and 2011, the prolonged decline in the housing market continues to adversely affect these activities, which remain at historically low levels. low levels of consumer confidence and the downward pressure on home prices have made homeowners hesitant to make additional investments in their homes, particularly for large ticket items such as kitchen and bath remodeling projects. further, tighter lending standards have limited the ability of consumers to finance home purchases and home improvements. the new home construction market, which is generally cyclical in nature, has undergone a major downturn marked by substantial declines in the demand for new homes, an oversupply of new and existing homes on the market, and a reduction in the availability of financing for homebuyers, and remains at historically low levels. in addition, the high number of home mortgage foreclosures has further added to the oversupply of existing homes held for sale, which has contributed to the sustained downward pressure on home prices as well as the demand for new home construction. we continue to believe long-term trends should result in substantial growth in our markets. population growth and immigration trends are contributing to increased household formation, which we believe should reduce the existing excess supply of homes in the market. in addition, due to aging housing stock, there is a growing need for replacement, remodeling and repair as well as products to enhance energy efficiency. we also believe that there is growing awareness regarding the importance of adequately protecting family, employees and assets. although we continue to believe that the long-term outlook for the home products markets is favorable, we cannot predict the timing, strength, or shape of a recovery. as a result, depressed levels of consumer spending on home improvements and new home construction have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. consumers may have been adversely impacted long-term by the global economic recession, economic and housing challenges may continue and a recovery may be slow or may not occur at all, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. stable economic conditions, including strong employment, consumer confidence and credit availability, are important not only to the basic health of our consumer markets, but also to our own 8 table of contents results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while the major economic disruptions of the 2008-2009 recession have largely subsided, significant economic and consumer challenges remain, including sustained high unemployment, low consumer confidence, record budget deficits and levels of government debt, and fragile credit and housing markets. as a result, consumers trading down to lower-priced products and increased focus on value may endure long-term despite a recovery in demand. consumers may even choose to reduce discretionary spending further or price consciousness may intensify or delay or decrease home ownership and household formation, as well as cause a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes, including from single-family to multi-family housing. these factors may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, the prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the home products market is very competitive. competition is further intensified during economic downturns. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for consumers as well as our trade customers. price sensitive customers may be more likely to trade down to lower-priced products during challenging economic times or if economic conditions worsen. in addition, some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we may not successfully develop new products or improve existing products. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in product development, and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may either improve more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to reduce costs and enhance quality. we strive to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market pressures to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of 9 table of contents operations, cash flows and financial condition. despite our efforts to control costs and improve productivity in our facilities, increased competition could still cause lower operating margins and profitability, negatively impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price and volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as copper, zinc, steel, glass, wood, and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. continued consolidation of our customers could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of customers in north america has increased the size and importance of individual customers and creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. furthermore, larger customers have greater leverage and can better control the prices we receive for our products and services, our costs of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. the loss of certain larger customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions. risks associated with potential strategic acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of 10 table of contents key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, including the u.s., canada, mexico, china and europe. accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad, including tax laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. while we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position in local currency of our products, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well as internationally. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to many of our businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and our inability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position. the inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. 11 table of contents our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors or representatives could affect our ability to bring products to market. our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation in the united states; the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumption. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. the company accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, lack of raw material or component availability, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. 12 table of contents financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate and the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as internationally. it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material adverse impact on our worldwide income tax provision. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and which could have a material adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify them against liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, frequently result in lawsuits against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and require us to incur defense costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. 13 table of contents an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by our management at least annually. we evaluate the recoverability of goodwill by using a weighting of the income and market approaches. for the income approach, we use a discounted cash flow model, estimating the future cash flows of the reporting units to which the goodwill relates, and then discounting the future cash flows at a market-participant-derived weighted-average cost of capital. for the market approach, we apply market multiples for peer groups to the operating results of the reporting units to determine each reporting unit fair value. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. events and conditions that could result in further impairments include contractions in the north american housing market and a change in the timing and pace of the recovery from the recent global recession. in addition, further impairment could be caused by changes in the consumer categories in which we operate, increased competition, a significant product liability or intellectual property claim or other factors leading to reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability. if the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. these may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of these projects are subject to uncertainties. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. in particular, the security &amp; storage business is increasingly utilizing digital elements that may allow consumers to use and store personally identifiable information through online services operated by master lock. such information may include names, passwords, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect its systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. 14 table of contents we are subject to credit risk on our accounts receivable. our outstanding trade receivables are generally not covered by collateral or credit insurance. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance that such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and operating results. in addition, it is possible that continued weak economic conditions may cause significantly higher levels of customer defaults and bad debt expense in future periods than is contemplated by our current allowances for doubtful accounts. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: (1) our financial performance, (2) our credit ratings or absence of a credit rating, (3) the liquidity of the overall capital markets and (4) the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, even if that change may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. the existence of some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and delaware law may discourage a future takeover attempt not approved by our board of directors but which our stockholders may deem to be in their best interests or in which stockholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. these provisions include but are not limited to a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, no stockholder ability to fill director vacancies, elimination of the rights of our stockholders to act by written consent and call special stockholder meetings, super-majority vote requirements for certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our bylaws, prohibiting stockholders from removing directors other than for cause and rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings. in addition, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. 15 table of contents risks relating to our recent separation if the distribution (as defined below), together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then we, our former parent and our stockholders could be subject to significant tax liability. our former parent has received a private letter ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service ( irs ) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of all the shares of our common stock owned by our former parent to stockholders of our former parent as of september 20, 2011 (the distribution ) qualifies as tax-free under section 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares of our stock. in addition, the private letter ruling provides that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distribution will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter ruling, our former parent has received an opinion from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes, including confirming the satisfaction of the requirements under section 355 of the code not specifically addressed in the irs private letter ruling. the private letter ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations from us and our former parent regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. under the terms of the tax allocation agreement we entered into in connection with the distribution, in the event that the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, any of our affiliates or our stockholders, we would be responsible for all taxes imposed on our former parent as a result thereof. such tax amounts could be significant. we have limited operating history as an independent, publicly-traded company, and our historical financial statements are not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be reliable indicators of our future results. our historical financial statements do not necessarily reflect the results of operations, cash flows and financial condition that we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the following factors: &gt; historically, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, were financed by our former parent. prior to the separation, our former parent managed and retained cash we generated. following completion of the separation, our former parent ceased providing us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. without the opportunity to obtain financing from our former parent, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements, and such arrangements may not be available to us or available on terms that are as favorable as those we could have obtained when we were part of our former parent. &gt; prior to the separation, our business was operated by our former parent as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. our former parent historically performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, tax administration, treasury activities, accounting, legal, ethics and compliance program administration, investor and public relations, certain governance functions (including internal audit) and external reporting. 16 table of contents our historical financial statements reflect allocations of corporate expenses from our former parent for these and similar functions. these allocations may be more or less than the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as an independent, publicly traded company. &gt; other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operation as a company separate from our former parent. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of certain restrictions relating to requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions is limited or restricted to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution by our former parent. even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate level taxable gain to our former parent under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of shares of our stock or our former parent stock are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the separation. any acquisitions or issuances of our stock or our former parent stock within two years after the distribution are generally presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or our former parent may be able to rebut that presumption. to preserve the tax-free treatment to our former parent of the distribution, under the tax allocation agreement that we entered into with our former parent, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free. further, for the two-year period following the distribution, without obtaining the consent of our former parent, a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, we are prohibited from: &gt; approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than a specified percentage of our common stock, &gt; redeeming any equity securities, &gt; selling or disposing of a specified percentage of our assets, &gt; acquiring a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire in excess of a specified percentage of our common stock or &gt; engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. moreover, the tax allocation agreement also provides that we are responsible for any taxes imposed on our former parent or any of its affiliates as a result of the failure of the distribution or the internal transactions to qualify for favorable treatment under the code if such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the distribution by or in respect of us, any of our affiliates or our stockholders. the indemnification arrangements we entered into with our former parent in connection with the separation may require us to divert cash to satisfy indemnification obligations to our former parent and may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of losses for which our former parent indemnifies us. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the indemnification agreement and certain other agreements, our former parent agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities and we agreed to indemnify our former parent for certain liabilities, as discussed further in the sections entitled certain relationships and related party transactions agreements with fortune brands, inc. included in 17 table of contents the information statement of our registration statement on form 10. indemnities that we may be required to provide our former parent may be significant and could negatively impact our business, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution. third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that our former parent has agreed to retain. further, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from our former parent will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities or that our former parent will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from our former parent any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. each of these risks could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. a court could deem the distribution to be a fraudulent conveyance and void the transaction or impose substantial liabilities upon us. a court could deem the distribution or certain internal restructuring transactions undertaken by our former parent in connection with the separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. a court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon us, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. among other things, the court could require our stockholders to return to our former parent, for the benefit of its creditors, some or all of the shares of our common stock issued in the distribution, or require us to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the restructuring transaction. whether a transaction is a fraudulent conveyance or transfer under applicable state law may vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. risks relating to our common stock we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: &gt; a shift in our investor base; &gt; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; &gt; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; &gt; success or failure of our business strategy; &gt; our ability to obtain financing as needed; &gt; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; &gt; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; &gt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; &gt; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; &gt; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet our earnings guidance; &gt; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and &gt; overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. 18 table of contents stock markets in general have also experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. we currently do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the short term. all decisions regarding our payment of dividends will be made by our board of directors from time to time in accordance with applicable law. there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus under delaware law to be able to pay any dividends. this may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures or increases in reserves. if we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for you to receive a gain on your investment. this appreciation may not occur. further, you may have to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. interest rate risk a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting the company external variable rate borrowings would be approximately $4 million on a pre-tax basis. foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk (var) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss from the company foreign currency exchange contracts using the var model was $2.0 million at december 31, 2011. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 47 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk fa ctors. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. while the north american housing market continued to stabilize in 2012, housing market activity remains at low levels. weaker consumer confidence has made homeowners hesitant to make additional investments in their homes, particularly for large ticket items such as kitchen and bath remodeling projects. further, tighter lending standards have limited the ability of consumers to finance home purchases and home improvements. the new home construction market, which is generally cyclical in nature, experienced a major downturn marked by substantial declines in the demand for new homes and a reduction in the availability of financing for homebuyers. while improving, the new home construction market remains near historically low levels. we continue to believe long-term trends should result in growth in our markets. population growth and immigration trends are contributing to increased household formation, which we believe should increase new construction activity from current levels. in addition, due to aging housing stock, there is a growing need for replacement, remodeling and repair, as well as products to enhance energy efficiency. we also believe that there is growing awareness regarding the importance of adequately protecting family, employees and assets. although we continue to believe that the long-term outlook for the home products markets is favorable, we cannot predict the timing, strength, or shape of a recovery. depressed levels of consumer spending on home improvements and new home construction have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. consumers may have been adversely impacted long-term by the global economic recession, economic and housing challenges may continue, and a recovery may be slow, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. stable economic conditions, including strong employment, consumer confidence and credit availability, are important not only to the basic health of our consumer markets, but also to our own results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while the major economic disruptions of the 2008-2009 recession have largely subsided, significant economic and consumer challenges remain, including high unemployment, record budget deficits and levels of government debt, significant uncertainties regarding spending cuts, tax increases and the u.s. federal debt ceiling, and fragile credit and housing markets. as a result, consumers may reduce discretionary spending or may continue to prefer lower-priced value-oriented products even as demand recovers. in addition, consumer price consciousness may intensify resulting in the delay or decrease in home ownership and household formation, as well as cause a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes. these factors may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, the prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. 8 table of contents we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the markets in which we operate are very competitive. competition is further intensified during economic downturns. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for consumers as well as our trade customers. price sensitive customers may be more likely to trade down to lower-priced products during challenging economic times or if economic conditions worsen. in addition, some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we may not successfully develop new products or improve existing products. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to reduce costs and enhance quality. we strive to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market pressures to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. despite our efforts to control costs and improve productivity in our facilities, increased competition could still cause lower operating margins and profitability, negatively impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price and volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as copper, zinc, steel, glass, wood and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for 9 table of contents these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. continued consolidation of our customers could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of customers in north america has increased the size and importance of individual customers and creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. furthermore, larger customers have greater leverage and can better control the prices we receive for our products and services, our costs of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. the loss of certain larger customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with potential strategic acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the u.s., canada, china, europe and mexico. accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad, including tax laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. while we hedge certain foreign currency 10 table of contents transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well as internationally. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to many of our businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and our inability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position. the inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors or representatives could affect our ability to bring products to market. 11 table of contents our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of pension and postretirement medical benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation in the united states; the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumption. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses and amortization of liability savings, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, lack of raw material or component availability, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are dependent upon suppliers for a portion of raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals could require us to incur significant additional expenses in connection with procuring these raw materials. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec promulgated final rules for companies requiring companies to disclose the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, in their products. these requirements will require companies that are subject to the rules to perform diligence and disclose whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic 12 table of contents republic of congo and adjoining countries. assuming the rules remain effective, these new requirements will require due diligence efforts for the 2013 calendar year, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in may 2014. there may be significant costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including identifying the sources of any conflict minerals that may be used in our products. in addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s., as well as internationally. due to the record high u.s. federal budget deficit, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material adverse impact on our worldwide income tax provision. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers typically include the obligation to defend and indemnify them against liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, frequently result in lawsuits against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and require us to incur defense costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. 13 table of contents an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by our management at least annually. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. events and/or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that lag our assumptions, actions of key customers, volatility of discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, and lower levels of discretionary consumer spending. if the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. these may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of these projects are subject to uncertainties. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. in particular, the security &amp; storage business is increasingly utilizing digital elements that allow third parties to store personally identifiable information and other information pertaining to their customers and their employees and businesses through online services operated by master lock. such information may include names, passwords, addresses, phone numbers, access to facilities, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we are subject to credit risk on our accounts receivable. our outstanding trade receivables are generally not covered by collateral or credit insurance. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance that such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and 14 table of contents avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, it is possible that continued weak economic conditions may cause significantly higher levels of customer defaults and bad debt expense in future periods than is contemplated by our current allowances for doubtful accounts. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: (i) our financial performance, (ii) our credit ratings or absence of a credit rating, (iii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets and (iv) the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, even if that change may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. the existence of some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and delaware law may discourage a future takeover attempt not approved by our board of directors but which some stockholders may deem to be in their best interests or in which stockholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. these provisions include but are not limited to a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, no stockholder ability to fill director vacancies, elimination of the rights of our stockholders to act by written consent and call special stockholder meetings, super-majority vote requirements for certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our bylaws, prohibition against stockholders from removing directors other than for cause and rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings. in addition, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. 15 table of contents risks relating the separation we must abide by certain restrictions to preserve the tax treatment of the distribution of our common stock by our former parent and we must indemnify our former parent for taxes resulting from certain actions if they were to cause the distribution (as defined below) to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction. our former parent has received a ruling from the internal revenue service that, based on certain representations and qualifications, the distribution of all the shares of our common stock owned by our former parent to stockholders of our former parent as of september 20, 2011 (the distribution ) was tax-free to our former parent stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes (except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares of our stock). these representations include satisfaction of certain requirements that must be met in order for the distribution to qualify for tax-free treatment under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and state law. in addition to obtaining the private letter ruling, our former parent has received an opinion from a law firm confirming the tax-free status of the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes, including confirming the satisfaction of the requirements under section 355 of the code not specifically addressed in the irs private letter ruling. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. under the terms of the tax allocation agreement we entered into in connection with the distribution, in the event that the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, any of our affiliates or our stockholders, we would be responsible for all taxes imposed on our former parent as a result thereof. such tax amounts could be significant. even though the distribution initially qualifies as a tax-free distribution under the code, current tax law generally creates a presumption that the distribution would be taxable to our former parent if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that would result in a 50% or greater change, by vote or by value, in our stock ownership during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the distribution date, unless it is established that the transaction is not pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the distribution. under the tax allocation agreement entered into between our former parent and us, for a period of two years following the distribution, we may not take certain actions unless our former parent provides us with prior written consent for such action, or we provide our former parent with a tax ruling or rulings, or an unqualified opinion of counsel, in each case acceptable to our former parent, to the effect that the action will not affect the tax-free nature of the distribution. these restrictions may prevent us from entering into strategic or other transactions which might be advantageous to us or to our stockholders, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy our financing needs, acquiring businesses or assets by issuing equity securities, or mergers or other business combinations. further, these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. our historical financial information for periods prior to the separation is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical financial information we have included in this annual report for periods prior to the separation may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented before the separation. 16 table of contents the indemnification arrangements we entered into with our former parent in connection with the separation may require us to divert cash to satisfy indemnification obligations to our former parent and may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of losses for which our former parent indemnifies us. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the indemnification agreement and certain other agreements, our former parent agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities and we agreed to indemnify our former parent from certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide our former parent may be significant and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. a court could deem the distribution to be a fraudulent conveyance and void the transaction or impose substantial liabilities upon us. a court could deem the distribution or certain internal restructuring transactions undertaken by our former parent in connection with the separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. a court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon us, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. among other things, the court could require our stockholders to return to our former parent, for the benefit of its creditors, some or all of the shares of our common stock issued in the distribution, or require us to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the restructuring transaction. whether a transaction is a fraudulent conveyance or transfer under applicable state law may vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. risks relating to our common stock we cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: &gt; a shift in our investor base; &gt; our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; &gt; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; &gt; success or failure of our business strategy; &gt; our ability to obtain financing as needed; &gt; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; &gt; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; &gt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; &gt; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; &gt; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet our earnings guidance; &gt; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and &gt; overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. 17 table of contents stock markets in general have also experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. these broad market fluctuations could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends on our stock. all decisions regarding our payment of dividends will be made by our board of directors from time to time in accordance with applicable law. there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus under delaware law to be able to pay any dividends. this may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures or increases in reserves. if we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for stockholders to receive a gain on their investment. this appreciation may not occur. further, stockholders may have to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. interest rate risk a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting the company external variable rate borrowings as of december 31, 2012 would be $3.2 million on a pre-tax basis. foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk (var) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss in the fair value of the company foreign currency exchange contracts using the var model was $1.3 million at december 31, 2012. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated 46 table of contents losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 47 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. the new home construction market, which is generally cyclical in nature, is recovering from a major downturn that was marked by substantial declines in the demand for new homes and a reduction in the availability of financing for homebuyers. while improving, the new home construction market remains below historical levels. although we continue to believe that the long-term outlook for the home products markets is favorable, we cannot predict the timing, strength, or shape of a recovery. a continued recovery will largely be dependent upon improving employment levels, stable or rising home prices, increased levels of consumer confidence, mortgage rates, and stable credit markets. reduced levels of consumer spending on home improvements and new home construction may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. consumers may have been adversely impacted long-term by the global economic recession, negatively impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. stable economic conditions, including strong employment, consumer confidence and credit availability, are important not only to the basic health of our consumer markets, but also to our own results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while the major economic disruptions of the 2008-2009 recession have largely subsided, significant economic and consumer challenges remain, including higher unemployment, record budget deficits and levels of government debt, significant uncertainties regarding spending cuts, tax increases and the u.s. federal debt ceiling, and tight credit markets. as a result, consumers may reduce discretionary spending or may prefer lower-priced value-oriented products even as demand recovers. in addition, consumer price consciousness may intensify resulting in the delay or decrease in home ownership and household formation, as well as cause a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes. these factors may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the markets in which we operate are very competitive. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for consumers as well as our trade customers. price sensitive customers may be more likely to trade down to lower-priced products during challenging economic times or if economic 8 table of contents conditions worsen. in addition, some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we may not successfully develop new products or improve existing products. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to increase capacity, reduce costs and enhance quality. we strive to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market changes to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price and volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as copper, zinc, steel, glass, wood and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. 9 table of contents consolidation of our customers could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of customers in north america has increased the size and importance of individual customers and creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. furthermore, larger customers have greater leverage and can better control the prices we receive for our products and services, our costs of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. the loss of certain larger customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with strategic acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the u.s., canada, china, europe and mexico. accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad. risks inherent to international operations include: potentially adverse tax laws, uncertainty regarding clearance and enforcement of intellectual property rights, risks associated with the foreign corrupt practices act and difficulty enforcing contracts. while we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source certain raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. 10 table of contents changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and environmental concerns continue to emerge domestically, as well as internationally. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to many of our businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and our inability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position. the inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. there can be no assurance that our efforts to assess possible third party intellectual property rights will ensure that company ability to manufacture, distribute, market or sell in any given country or territory. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors or representatives could affect our ability to bring products to market. our pension costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on 11 table of contents pension plan assets assumption. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses and amortization of liability savings, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, lack of raw material or component availability, startup inefficiencies for new operations, disputes with strategic joint venture partners, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are dependent upon suppliers for a portion of raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals could require us to incur significant additional expenses in connection with procuring these raw materials. pursuant to the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, the sec requires companies to disclose the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals , in their products. companies that are subject to the rules must perform supply chain diligence and disclose whether or not such minerals originate from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. assuming the rules remain effective, these new requirements will require on-going due diligence efforts, and annual disclosure requirements beginning in may 2014. there may be significant costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including identifying the sources of any conflict minerals that may be used in our products. in addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. 12 table of contents future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s., as well as internationally. due to the high u.s. federal budget deficit, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material adverse impact on our worldwide income tax provision. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers typically include the obligation to defend and indemnify them against liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, frequently result in lawsuits against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and require us to incur defense costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely 13 table of contents to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by our management at least annually. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. events and/or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that lag our assumptions, actions of key customers, volatility of discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, and lower levels of discretionary consumer spending. if the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. these may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of these projects are subject to uncertainties. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. in particular, the security &amp; storage business is increasingly utilizing digital elements that allow third parties to use and store personally identifiable information and other information pertaining to their customers and their employees and businesses through online services operated by master lock. such information may include names, passwords, addresses, phone numbers, access to facilities, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we are subject to credit risk on our accounts receivable. our outstanding trade receivables are generally not covered by collateral or credit insurance. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance that such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, it is possible that weak economic conditions may cause significantly higher levels of customer defaults and bad debt expense in future periods than is contemplated by our current allowances for doubtful accounts. 14 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: (i) our financial performance, (ii) our credit ratings or absence of a credit rating, (iii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets and (iv) the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. in addition, a prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, even if that change may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. the existence of some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and delaware law may discourage a future takeover attempt not approved by our board of directors but which some stockholders may deem to be in their best interests or in which stockholders may receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. these provisions include but are not limited to a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, no stockholder ability to fill director vacancies, elimination of the rights of our stockholders to act by written consent and call special stockholder meetings, super-majority vote requirements for certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our bylaws, prohibition against stockholders from removing directors other than for cause and rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings. in addition, we are subject to section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock. we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. however, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our best interests or the best interests of our stockholders. we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends on our stock. although we established a dividend program in 2013, we cannot provide assurance that we will declare or pay such dividends in the future at the same rate or at all. all decisions regarding our payment of dividends will be made by our board of directors from time to time in accordance with applicable law. there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus under delaware law to be able to pay any dividends. this may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures or increases in reserves. if we do not 15 table of contents pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for stockholders to receive a gain on their investment. this appreciation may not occur. further, stockholders may have to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. risks relating to the separation we must abide by certain restrictions to preserve the tax treatment of the distribution of our common stock by our former parent and we must indemnify our former parent for taxes resulting from certain actions if they were to cause the distribution (as defined below) to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction. our former parent has received a ruling from the internal revenue service (the irs ) that, based on certain representations and qualifications, the distribution of all the shares of our common stock owned by our former parent to stockholders of our former parent as of september 20, 2011 (the distribution ) was tax-free to our former parent stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes (except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares of our stock). these representations include satisfaction of certain requirements that must be met in order for the distribution to qualify for tax-free treatment under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), and state law. in addition to obtaining the private letter ruling, our former parent has received an opinion from a law firm confirming the tax-free status of the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes, including confirming the satisfaction of the requirements under section 355 of the code not specifically addressed in the irs private letter ruling. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. under the terms of the tax allocation agreement we entered into in connection with the distribution, in the event that the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, any of our affiliates or our stockholders, we would be responsible for all taxes imposed on our former parent as a result thereof. such tax amounts could be significant. our historical financial information for periods prior to the separation is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company. the historical financial information we have included in this annual report on form 10-k for periods prior to the separation may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent, publicly-traded company during the periods presented before the separation. the indemnification arrangements we entered into with our former parent in connection with the separation may require us to divert cash to satisfy indemnification obligations to our former parent and may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of losses for which our former parent indemnifies us. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the indemnification agreement and certain other agreements, our former parent agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities and we agreed to indemnify our former parent from certain liabilities. indemnities that we may be required to provide our former parent may be significant and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 table of contents a court could deem the distribution to be a fraudulent conveyance and void the transaction or impose substantial liabilities upon us. a court could deem the distribution or certain internal restructuring transactions undertaken by our former parent in connection with the separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. a court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon us, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. among other things, the court could require our stockholders to return to our former parent, for the benefit of its creditors, some or all of the shares of our common stock issued in the distribution, or require us to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the restructuring transaction. whether a transaction is a fraudulent conveyance or transfer under applicable state law may vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative 44 table of contents purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. interest rate risk a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting the company external variable rate borrowings as of december 31, 2013 would be $3.6 million on a pre-tax basis. foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk ( var ) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one-day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss in the fair value of the company foreign currency exchange contracts using the var model was $1.8 million at december 31, 2013. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 45 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k when deciding whether to invest in our common stock or otherwise evaluating our business. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. in this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. downward changes in the general economy, the housing market or other business conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. the housing market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in any of the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and could adversely impact our businesses. consumers may reduce discretionary spending or may prefer lower-priced value-oriented products. in addition, consumer price consciousness may intensify resulting in the delay or decrease in home ownership and household formation, as well as cause a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes. the new home construction market is still recovering from a major downturn in 2008 and 2009, and while improving, the new home construction market remains below historical levels. we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the markets in which we operate are very competitive. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for consumers as well as our trade customers. in addition, some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with strategic acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. 8 table of contents we may not successfully develop new products or improve existing products. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to increase capacity, reduce costs and enhance quality. we strive to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market changes to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as copper, zinc, steel, glass, wood and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the u.s., canada, china, europe and mexico. accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social 9 table of contents environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad. risks inherent to international operations include: potentially adverse tax laws, uncertainty regarding clearance and enforcement of intellectual property rights, risks associated with the foreign corrupt practices act and difficulty enforcing contracts. while we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source certain raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and environmental concerns continue to emerge domestically, as well as internationally. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to many of our businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and our inability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position. our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. there can be no assurance that our efforts to assess possible third party intellectual property rights will ensure that company ability to manufacture, distribute, market or sell in any given country or territory. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, 10 table of contents we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors or representatives could affect our ability to bring products to market. our pension costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets and changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses and amortization of liability savings, particularly due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, weather, lack of raw material or component availability, startup inefficiencies for new operations, disputes with strategic joint venture partners, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 11 table of contents our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s., as well as internationally. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. in connection with the divestiture of businesses and the separation from our former parent, we have retained and may further retain tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds for periods before any divestiture or separation. as a result, from time to time, we may be required to make payments related to tax matters associated with these transactions. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, product recalls, personal injury claims, construction defects and home warranty claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by our management at least annually. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is 12 table of contents considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. events and/or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that lag our assumptions, actions of key customers, volatility of discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, lower levels of discretionary consumer spending and a decline in the price of our common stock. if the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. these may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of these projects are subject to uncertainties. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant financial, legal, and operational consequences. information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. in particular, our security business is increasingly utilizing digital elements that allow third parties to use and store personally identifiable information and other information pertaining to their customers and their employees and businesses through online services operated by master lock. such information may include names, passwords, addresses, phone numbers, access to facilities, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we are subject to credit risk on our accounts receivable. our outstanding trade receivables are generally not covered by collateral or credit insurance. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our trade receivables, there can be no assurance that such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, it is possible that weak economic conditions may cause significantly higher levels of customer defaults and bad debt expense in future periods than is contemplated by our current allowances for doubtful accounts. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our 13 table of contents operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: (i) our financial performance, (ii) our credit ratings or absence of a credit rating, (iii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets and (iv) the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. in addition, a prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. interest rate risk a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting the company external variable rate borrowings as of december 31, 2014 would be $6.7 million on a pre-tax basis. foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk ( var ) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one-day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss in the fair value of the company foreign currency exchange contracts using 40 table of contents the var model was $2.4 million at december 31, 2014. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 41 table of contentsrisk factors. 8 risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k when deciding whether to invest in our common stock or otherwise evaluating our business. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. in this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. downward changes in the general economy, the housing market or other business conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. the housing market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in any of the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and could adversely impact our businesses by: causing consumers to delay or decrease home ownership; making consumers more price conscious resulting in a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes; making consumers more reluctant to make investments in their existing homes, including large kitchen and bath repair and remodel projects; or making it more difficult to secure loans for major renovations. although the new u.s. home construction market is improving, demand for new homes is still recovering and remains below historical levels. we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the markets in which we operate are very competitive. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for consumers as well as our trade customers. some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with strategic acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. 8 table of contents we may not successfully develop new products or improve existing products. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to increase capacity, reduce costs and enhance quality. we strive to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market changes to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as brass, zinc, steel, wood, glass and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the commodity exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the u.s., canada, china, europe and mexico. accordingly, we are subject to risks 9 table of contents associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad. risks inherent to international operations include: potentially adverse tax laws, uncertainty regarding clearance and enforcement of intellectual property rights, risks associated with the foreign corrupt practices act and difficulty enforcing contracts. while we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source certain raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and environmental concerns continue to emerge domestically, as well as internationally. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with these regulations (such as the restrictions on water flow rates and lead content in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to many of our businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and our inability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive and reputational positions. our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. there can be no assurance that our efforts to assess possible third party intellectual property rights will ensure that company ability to manufacture, distribute, market or sell in any given country or territory. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial 10 table of contents condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors or representatives could affect our ability to bring products to market. our pension costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets and changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses and amortization of liability savings, particularly due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, weather, lack of raw material or component availability, startup inefficiencies for new operations, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 11 table of contents our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s., as well as internationally. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. in connection with the divestiture of businesses and the separation from our former parent, we have retained and may further retain tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds for periods before any divestiture or separation. as a result, from time to time, we may be required to make payments related to tax matters associated with these transactions. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, product recalls, personal injury claims, construction defects and home warranty claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of trademarks, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by our management at least annually. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is 12 table of contents considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. events and/or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that lag our assumptions, actions of key customers, volatility of discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, lower levels of discretionary consumer spending and a decline in the price of our common stock. if the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. these may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of these projects are subject to uncertainties. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant financial, legal and operational consequences. information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. in particular, our security business is increasingly utilizing digital elements that allow third parties to use and store personally identifiable information and other information pertaining to their customers and their employees and businesses through online services operated by master lock. such information may include names, passwords, addresses, phone numbers, access to facilities, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. we believe we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: (i) our financial performance, (ii) our credit ratings, (iii) the liquidity of the overall capital markets and (iv) the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. in addition, a prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and 13 table of contents weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. interest rate risk a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting the company external variable rate borrowings as of december 31, 2015, would be $2.8 million on a pre-tax basis. 42 table of contents foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk ( var ) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one-day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss in the fair value of the company foreign currency exchange contracts using the var model was $1.1 million at december 31, 2015. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 43 table of contentsrisk factors. 8 risk factors. there are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. if any of the following risks materialize, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. in this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. downward changes in the general economy, the housing market or other business conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. the housing market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, access to labor, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in any of the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and could adversely impact our businesses by: causing consumers to delay or decrease homeownership; making consumers more price conscious resulting in a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes; making consumers more reluctant to make investments in their existing homes, including large kitchen and bath repair and remodel projects; or making it more difficult to secure loans for major renovations. although the u.s. new home construction market is improving, demand for new homes is still recovering after the 2007-2009 u.s. economic recession and continues to remain below historical levels. we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the markets in which we operate are very competitive. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for consumers as well as our trade customers. some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with strategic acquisitions and joint ventures could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. 8 table of contents we may not successfully develop new products or improve existing products. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new products, we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to increase capacity, reduce costs and enhance quality. we strive to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market changes to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as brass, zinc, steel, wood, glass and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the commodity exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the u.s., canada, china, europe and mexico. accordingly, we are subject to risks 9 table of contents associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad. risks inherent to international operations include: potentially adverse tax laws, unfavorable changes or uncertainty relating to trade agreements or importation duties, uncertainty regarding clearance and enforcement of intellectual property rights, risks associated with the foreign corrupt practices act and difficulty enforcing contracts. while we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source certain raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations and policies pertaining to trade agreements, health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers), taxes and environmental concerns continue to emerge domestically, as well as internationally. in particular, there may be additional tariffs or taxes related to our imported inputs and finished goods. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with changes in taxes, tariffs and other regulations may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. there can be no assurance that our efforts to assess possible third party intellectual property rights will ensure that company ability to manufacture, distribute, market or sell in any given country or territory. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one 10 table of contents of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors or representatives to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors or representatives could affect our ability to bring products to market. our pension costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets and changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses and amortization of liability savings, particularly due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, weather, lack of raw material or component availability, startup inefficiencies for new operations, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 11 table of contents our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s., as well as internationally. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, product recalls, personal injury claims, construction defects and home warranty claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of customer relationships, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by our management at least annually. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. events or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: actual new construction and repair and remodel growth 12 table of contents rates that lag our assumptions, actions of key customers, volatility of discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, lower levels of discretionary consumer spending and a decline in the price of our common stock. if the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant financial, legal and operational consequences. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. these may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of these projects are subject to uncertainties. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. in addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. we believe we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: our financial performance, our credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. in addition, a prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. 42 table of contents interest rate risk a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting the company external variable rate borrowings as of december 31, 2016, would be $5.4 million on a pre-tax basis. foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk ( var ) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one-day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss in the fair value of the company foreign currency exchange contracts using the var model was $1.3 million at december 31, 2016. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 43 table of contentsrisk factors. 7 risk factors. there are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. if any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. in this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. downward changes in the general economy, the housing market or other business conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. the housing market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, access to labor, consumer confidence, consumer income, government tax programs, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in any of the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and could adversely impact our businesses by: causing consumers to delay or decrease homeownership; making consumers more price conscious resulting in a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes; making consumers more reluctant to make investments in their existing homes, including large kitchen and bath repair and remodel projects; or making it more difficult to secure loans for major renovations. although the u.s. new home construction market continues to improve, demand for new homes is still recovering after the 2007-2009 u.s. economic recession and continues to remain below historical levels. we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the markets in which we operate are very competitive. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for 7 table of contents consumers as well as our trade customers. some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain or grow market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with strategic acquisitions and joint ventures could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue additional shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. we may not successfully develop new products or processes or improve existing products or processes. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. while we devote significant focus to the development of new or updated products and processes, we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products or processes more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to increase capacity, reduce costs and enhance quality. we may be unable to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market changes to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s., as well as internationally. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. 8 table of contents risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as brass, zinc, steel, wood, and glass and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the commodity exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the u.s., canada, china, europe and mexico. accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad. risks inherent to international operations include: potentially adverse tax laws, unfavorable changes or uncertainty relating to trade agreements or importation duties, uncertainty regarding clearance and enforcement of intellectual property rights, risks associated with the foreign corrupt practices act and difficulty enforcing contracts. while we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source certain raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations and policies pertaining to trade agreements, health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers), taxes and environmental concerns continue to emerge domestically, as well as internationally. in particular, there may be additional tariffs or taxes related to our imported inputs and finished goods. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with changes in taxes, tariffs and other regulations may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 9 table of contents our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. there can be no assurance that our efforts to assess possible third party intellectual property rights will ensure that company ability to manufacture, distribute, market or sell in any given country or territory. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors, representatives or retailers to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers could affect our ability to bring products to market. our pension costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets and changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, weather, lack of raw material or component availability, startup inefficiencies for new operations, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 10 table of contents our inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. the failure to attract, motivate and retain members of our senior management team and key employees could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, product recalls, personal injury claims, construction defects and home warranty claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of customer relationships, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by management at least annually. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. events or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the 11 table of contents estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that lag our assumptions, actions of key customers, volatility of discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, lower levels of discretionary consumer spending and a decline in the price of our common stock. if the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant financial, legal and operational consequences. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. these may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. in addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. we believe we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: our financial performance, our credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. in addition, a prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. interest rate risk a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting the company external variable rate borrowings as of december 31, 2017, would be $6.2 million on a pre-tax basis. foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk ( var ) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one-day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss in the fair value of the company foreign currency exchange contracts using the var model was $1.0 million at december 31, 2017. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 40 table of contentsrisk factors. 6 risk factors. there are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. set forth below are descriptions of those risks and 6 table of contents uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. if any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. in this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. downward changes in the general economy, the housing market or other business conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. the housing market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, access to labor, consumer confidence, consumer income, government tax programs, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in any of the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and could adversely impact our businesses by: causing consumers to delay or decrease homeownership; making consumers more price conscious resulting in a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes; making consumers more reluctant to make investments in their existing homes, including large kitchen and bath repair and remodel projects; or making it more difficult to secure loans for major renovations. we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the markets in which we operate are very competitive. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion trends, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for consumers as well as our trade customers. some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain or grow market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. we also face increasing pressure from imported flat pack cabinets. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to increase capacity, reduce costs and enhance quality. we may be unable to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market changes to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. import tariffs could potentially lead to increases in prices of raw materials or components which are critical to our business. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we may not successfully develop new products or processes or improve existing products or processes. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or 7 table of contents improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products or processes more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as brass, zinc, steel, wood, and glass and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the commodity exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the u.s., canada, china, europe and mexico. accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad. risks inherent to international operations include: potentially adverse tax laws, unfavorable changes or uncertainty relating to trade agreements or importation duties, uncertainty regarding clearance and enforcement of intellectual property rights, risks associated with the foreign corrupt practices act and difficulty enforcing contracts. while we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source certain raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to currency fluctuations, higher wage rates, labor shortages and higher raw material costs. changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations and policies pertaining to trade agreements, health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers), taxes and environmental concerns continue to emerge 8 table of contents domestically, as well as internationally. in particular, there may be additional tariffs or taxes related to our imported inputs and finished goods. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with changes in taxes, tariffs and other regulations may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with strategic acquisitions and joint ventures could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures; difficulties retaining the acquired businesses customers and brands; the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions; the loss of key employees from acquired companies; implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems; and diversion of management attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue additional shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. there can be no assurance that our efforts to assess possible third party intellectual property rights will ensure the company ability to manufacture, distribute, market or sell in any given country or territory. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors, representatives or retailers to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers could effect our ability to bring products to market. our pension costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets and changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan 9 table of contents assets; potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations; and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, weather, lack of raw material or component availability, startup inefficiencies for new operations, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel and other labor constraints could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. with low unemployment rates in the u.s., competition for qualified talent and attracting and retaining personnel in remote locations could result in the failure to attract, motivate and retain personnel, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s., as well as internationally. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a 10 table of contents result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. in addition, significant judgement is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our total income tax expense could be affected by changes in tax laws rates in the jurisdictions in which our businesses are subject to taxation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws by tax authorities. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, product recalls, personal injury claims, construction defects and home warranty claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. the carrying value of other intangible assets represents the fair value of customer relationships, tradenames and other acquired intangible assets as of the acquisition date. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by management at least annually. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. events or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that fall below our assumptions, actions of key customers, increases in discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, lower levels of discretionary consumer spending, a decrease in royalty rates and decline in the trading price of our common stock . if the value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets is impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology systems and computer networks. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant financial, legal and operational consequences. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise 11 table of contents resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. in addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. we believe we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: our financial performance, our credit ratings, the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. in addition, a prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates 38 table of contents and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. interest rate risk a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting the company external variable rate borrowings as of december 31, 2018, would be $8.5 million on a pre-tax basis. foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk ( var ) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one-day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss in the fair value of the company foreign currency exchange contracts using the var model was $0.8 million at december 31, 2018. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 39 table of contentsrisk factors . 5 risk factors. there are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our business that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. set forth below are descriptions of those risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be material, but the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. if any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. in this case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. risks relating to our business our business primarily relies on north american home improvement, repair and remodel and new home construction activity levels, all of which are impacted by risks associated with fluctuations in the housing market. downward changes in the general economy, the housing market or other business conditions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our business primarily relies on home improvement, repair and remodel, and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america. the housing market is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, access to labor, consumer confidence, consumer income, government tax programs, availability of financing and interest rate levels. adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in any of the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and could adversely impact our businesses by: causing consumers to delay or decrease homeownership making consumers more price conscious resulting in a shift in demand to smaller, less expensive homes making consumers more reluctant to make investments in their existing homes, including large kitchen and bath repair and remodel projects or making it more difficult to secure loans for major renovations. 5 table of contents we operate in very competitive consumer and trade brand categories. the markets in which we operate are very competitive. although we believe that competition in our businesses is based largely on product quality, consumer and trade brand reputation, customer service and product features, as well as fashion trends, innovation and ease of installation, price is a significant factor for consumers as well as our trade customers. some of our competitors may resort to price competition to sustain or grow market share and manufacturing capacity utilization. also, certain large customers continue to offer private-label brands that compete with some of our product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. we also face increasing pressure from imported flat pack' cabinets. the strong competition that we face in all of our businesses may adversely affect our profitability and revenue levels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with our ability to improve organizational productivity and global supply chain efficiency and flexibility could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we regularly evaluate our organizational productivity and global supply chains and assess opportunities to increase capacity, reduce costs and enhance quality. we may be unable to enhance quality, speed and flexibility to meet changing and uncertain market conditions, as well as manage cost inflation, including wages, pension and medical costs. our success depends in part on refining our cost structure and supply chains to promote consistently flexible and low cost supply chains that can respond to market changes to protect profitability and cash flow or ramp up quickly and effectively to meet demand. import tariffs could potentially lead to increases in prices of raw materials or components which are critical to our business. failure to achieve the desired level of quality, capacity or cost reductions could impair our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we may not successfully develop new products or processes or improve existing products or processes. our success depends on meeting consumer needs and anticipating changes in consumer preferences with successful new products and product improvements. we aim to introduce products and new or improved production processes proactively to offset obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. we may not be successful in product development and our new products may not be commercially successful. in addition, it is possible that competitors may improve their products or processes more rapidly or effectively, which could adversely affect our sales. furthermore, market demand may decline as a result of consumer preferences trending away from our categories or trending down within our brands or product categories, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with global commodity and energy availability and price volatility, as well as the possibility of sustained inflation, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with global commodity price volatility arising from restricted or uneven supply conditions, the sustained expansion and volatility of demand from emerging markets, potentially unstable geopolitical and economic variables, weather and other unpredictable external factors. we buy raw materials that contain commodities such as brass, zinc, steel, wood, and glass and petroleum-based products such as resins. in addition, our distribution costs are significantly impacted by the price of oil and diesel fuel. decreased availability and increased or volatile prices for these commodities, as well as energy used in making, distributing and transporting our products, could increase the costs of our products. while in the past we have been able to mitigate the impact of these cost increases through productivity improvements and passing on increasing costs to our customers over time, there is no assurance that we will be able to offset such cost increases in the future, and the risk of potentially sustained high levels of inflation could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we may use derivative contracts to limit our short-term exposure to commodity price volatility, the commodity exposures under these contracts could still be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, in periods of declining commodity prices, these derivative contracts may have the short-term effect of increasing our expenditures for these raw materials. we manufacture, source and sell products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally, including risks associated with uncertain trade environments. we manufacture, source or sell our products in a number of locations throughout the world, predominantly in the u.s., canada, china, europe and mexico. accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with potential disruption caused by changes in political, economic and social environments, including civil and political unrest, illnesses declared as a public health emergency (including viral pandemics), terrorism, possible expropriation, local labor conditions, changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments and trade disputes with the u.s., and u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad. we could be adversely affected by international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. risks inherent to international operations include: potentially adverse tax laws, unfavorable changes or uncertainty relating to trade agreements or importation duties, uncertainty regarding clearance and enforcement of intellectual property rights, risks associated with the foreign corrupt practices act, mandatory or voluntary shutdowns of our facilities or our suppliers due to changes in political, economic or health emergencies and difficulty enforcing contracts. while we hedge certain foreign currency transactions, a change in the value of the currencies will impact our financial statements when translated into u.s. dollars. in addition, fluctuations in currency can adversely impact the cost position of our products in local currency, making it more difficult for us to compete. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our businesses through the impact of these potential changes. in addition, we source certain raw materials, components and finished goods from china where we have 6 table of contents experienced higher manufacturing costs and longer lead times due to higher tariffs, currency fluctuations, higher wage rates , labor shortages and higher raw material costs . changes in government and industry regulatory standards could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. government regulations and policies pertaining to trade agreements, health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers), taxes and environmental concerns continue to emerge domestically, as well as internationally. in particular, there may be additional tariffs or taxes related to our imported raw materials, components and finished goods. it is necessary for us to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), and even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our products or processes in the future. compliance with changes in taxes, tariffs and other regulations may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could increase our capital expenditures and adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. risks associated with strategic acquisitions and joint ventures could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we consider acquisitions and joint ventures as a means of enhancing shareholder value. acquisitions and joint ventures involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired companies and operating joint ventures difficulties retaining the acquired businesses' customers and brands the inability to achieve the expected financial results and benefits of transactions the loss of key employees from acquired companies implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, policies and information systems and diversion of management's attention from other business matters. future acquisitions could cause us to incur additional debt or issue additional shares, resulting in dilution in earnings per share and return on capital. our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. we have many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that, in the aggregate, are important to our business. unauthorized use of these intellectual property rights may not only erode sales of our products, but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent the company to our customers, contractors and suppliers, and increase litigation costs. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our brands and trademark rights will prevent violations. in addition, existing patent, trade secret and trademark laws offer only limited protection, and the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not fully protect our intellectual property from infringement by others. there can be no assurance that our efforts to assess possible third party intellectual property rights will ensure the company's ability to manufacture, distribute, market or sell in any given country or territory. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. our businesses rely on the performance of wholesale distributors, dealers and other marketing arrangements and could be adversely affected by poor performance or other disruptions in our distribution channels and customers. we rely on a distribution network comprised of consolidating customers. any disruption to the existing distribution channels could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. the consolidation of distributors or the financial instability or default of a distributor or one of its major customers could potentially cause such a disruption. in addition to our own sales force, we offer our products through a variety of third-party distributors, representatives and retailers. certain of our distributors, representatives or retailers may also market other products that compete with our products. the loss or termination of one or more of our major distributors, representatives or retailers, the failure of one or more of our distributors, representatives or retailers to effectively promote our products, or changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors, representatives or retailers could adversely effect our ability to bring products to market. risks associated with the disruption of operations could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. any prolonged disruption in our operations, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, weather, lack of raw material or component availability, startup inefficiencies for new operations, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, fires and explosions, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could negatively impact our profitability and competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our inability to obtain raw materials and finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. we purchase raw materials to be used in manufacturing our products and also rely on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. we typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers or sourcing partners. instead, most raw materials and sourced goods are obtained on a purchase order basis. in addition, in some instances we maintain single-source or limited-source sourcing relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity or price considerations. financial, operating or other difficulties encountered by our suppliers or sourcing partners or changes in our relationships with them could result in 7 table of contents manufacturing or sourcing interruptions, delays and inefficiencies, and prevent us from manufacturing or obtaining the finished goods necessary to meet customer demand. if we are unable to meet customer demand, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel and other labor constraints could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of qualified personnel at all levels, including our senior management team and other key employees. their motivation, skills, experience, contacts and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and administration. with low unemployment rates in the u.s., competition for qualified talent and attracting and retaining personnel in remote locations could result in the failure to attract, motivate and retain personnel, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. goodwill and other acquired intangible assets expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated for impairment by management at least annually. if the carrying value exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the goodwill is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. if the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a non-cash charge to earnings. during the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded non-cash impairment charges related to indefinite lived intangibles of $41.5 million and $62.6 million, respectively. future events may occur that would adversely affect the fair value of our goodwill or other acquired intangible assets and require impairment charges. such events may include, but are not limited to, lower than forecasted revenues, actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that fall below our assumptions, actions of key customers, increases in discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, lower levels of discretionary consumer spending, a decrease in royalty rates and a decline in the trading price of our common stock. we continue to evaluate the impact of economic and other developments to assess whether impairment indicators are present. accordingly, we may be required to perform impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, and these tests could result in impairment charges in the future. given the company's impairment charges in 2019 and 2018, there is minimal difference between the estimated fair values and the carrying values of some our indefinite-lived intangible assets, increasing the possibility of future impairment charges. we may experience delays or outages in our information technology systems and computer networks. we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems, which could damage our reputation and consumer relationships. such breaches could subject us to significant financial, legal and operational consequences. we, like most companies, may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events or disruptions. our businesses may implement enterprise resource planning systems or add applications to replace outdated systems and to operate more efficiently. we may not be able to successfully implement the projects without experiencing difficulties. in addition, any expected benefits of implementing projects might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. in addition, information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. we believe we devote appropriate resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. in the event of a breach, we would be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our pension costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets and changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions. increases in the costs of pension benefits may continue and negatively affect our business as a result of: the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension plan assets potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension plan assets assumptions. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. our accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly due to the change in the fair value of pension assets and interest rates. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. 8 table of contents future tax law changes or the interpretation of existing tax laws may materially impact our effective income tax rate, the resolution of unrecognized tax benefits and cash tax payments. our businesses are subject to income taxation in the u.s., as well as internationally. we are routinely audited by income tax authorities in many jurisdictions. although we believe that the recorded tax estimates are reasonable and appropriate, there are significant uncertainties in these estimates. as a result, the ultimate outcome from any audit could be materially different from amounts reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material adverse effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in our financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. in addition, significant judgement is required in determining our provision for income taxes. our total income tax expense could be affected by changes in tax laws rates in the jurisdictions in which our businesses are subject to taxation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such laws by tax authorities. potential liabilities and costs from claims and litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have an adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, product recalls, personal injury claims, construction defects and home warranty claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending or future litigation, and, as with any litigation, it is possible that some of the actions could be decided unfavorably and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. from time to time we may need to access the long-term and short-term capital markets to obtain financing. although we believe that the sources of capital currently in place permit us to finance our operations for the foreseeable future on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including, but not limited to: our financial performance, our credit ratings, reference rate reform, the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy, including the u.s. housing market. there can be no assurance that we will have access to the capital markets on terms acceptable to us. in addition, a prolonged global economic downturn may also adversely impact our access to long-term capital markets, result in increased interest rates on our corporate debt, and weaken operating cash flow and liquidity. decreased cash flow and liquidity could potentially adversely impact our ability to pay dividends, fund acquisitions and repurchase shares in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk . 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this annual report on form 10-k. derivative financial instruments in accordance with asc requirements for derivatives and hedging, we recognize all derivative contracts as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet, and the measurement of those instruments is at fair value. if the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge and is effective, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings in the same period. if the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income ( oci ) and are recognized in the consolidated statement of income when the hedged item affects earnings. if the derivative is designated as an effective economic hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation, the changes in the fair value of the derivative is reported in the cumulative translation adjustment section of oci. similar to foreign currency translation adjustments, these changes in fair value are recognized in earnings only when realized upon sale or upon complete or substantially complete liquidation of the investment in the foreign entity. deferred currency gains of $4.1 million and $2.2 million (before tax impact) were reclassified into earnings for the year ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. based on foreign exchange rates as of december 31, 2019, we estimate that $2.3 million of net derivative gain included in aoci as of december 31, 2019 will be reclassified to earnings within the next twelve months. recently issued accounting standards the adoption of recent accounting standards, as discussed in note 2, significant accounting policies, to our consolidated financial statements, has not had and is not expected to have a significant impact on our revenue, earnings or liquidity. critical accounting policies and estimates our significant accounting policies are described in note 2, significant accounting policies, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. the consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with gaap. preparation of the financial statements requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reflected in the financial statements and revenues and expenses reported for the relevant reporting periods. we believe the policies discussed below are the company's critical accounting policies as they include the more significant, subjective and complex judgments and estimates made when preparing our consolidated financial statements. allowances for doubtful accounts trade receivables are recorded at the stated amount, less allowances for discounts and doubtful accounts. the allowances for doubtful accounts represent estimated uncollectible receivables associated with potential customer defaults on contractual obligations (usually due to customers' potential insolvency) or discounts related to early payment of accounts receivables by our customers. the allowances include provisions for certain customers where a risk of default has been specifically identified. in addition, the allowances include a provision for customer defaults on a general formula basis when it is determined that the risk of some default is probable and estimable, but cannot yet be associated with specific customers. the assessment of the likelihood of customer defaults is based on various factors, including the length of time the receivables are past due, historical collection experience and existing economic conditions. in accordance with this policy, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $3.0 million and $3.7 million as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. inventories inventory provisions are recorded to reduce inventory to the net realizable dollar value for obsolete or slow moving inventory based on assumptions about future demand and marketability of products, the impact of new product introductions, inventory levels and turns, product spoilage and specific identification of items, such as product discontinuance, engineering/material changes, or regulatory-related changes. in accordance with this policy, our inventory provision was $46.1 million and $45.3 million as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 22 table of contents long-lived assets in accordance with asc requirements for property, plant and equipment, a long-lived asset (including amortizable identifiable intangible assets) or asset group held for use is tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. when such events occur, we compare the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset group to the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or asset group. the cash flows are based on our best estimate of future cash flows derived from the most recent business projections. if this comparison indicates that there is an impairment, the amount of the impairment is calculated based on fair value. fair value is estimated primarily using discounted expected future cash flows on a market-participant basis. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in accordance with asc requirements for intangibles goodwill and other, goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, and written down when impaired. an interim impairment test is performed if an event occurs or conditions change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below the carrying value. to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired. qualitative factors include changes in volume, margin, customers and the industry. if it is deemed more likely than not that goodwill for a reporting unit is impaired, we will perform a quantitative impairment test using a weighting of the income and market approaches. for the income approach, we use a discounted cash flow model, estimating the future cash flows of the reporting units to which the goodwill relates and then discounting the future cash flows at a market-participant-derived discount rate. in determining the estimated future cash flows, we consider current and projected future levels of income based on management's plans for that business business trends, prospects and market and economic conditions and market-participant considerations. furthermore, our cash flow projections used to assess impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets are significantly influenced by our projection for the u.s. home products market, our annual operating plans finalized in the fourth quarter of each year, and our ability to execute on various planned cost reduction initiatives supporting operating income improvements. our projection for the u.s. home products market is inherently uncertain and is subject to a number of factors, such as employment, home prices, credit availability, new home starts and the rate of home foreclosures. for the market approach, we apply market multiples for peer groups to the current operating results of the reporting units to determine each reporting unit's fair value. the company's reporting units are operating segments, or one level below operating segments when appropriate. when the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we measure and recognize the amount of the goodwill impairment loss based on that difference. the significant assumptions that are used to determine the estimated fair value for goodwill impairment testing include the following: third-party market forecasts of u.s. new home starts and home repair and remodel spending management's sales, operating income and cash flow forecasts peer company ebitda earnings multiples the market-participant-based discount rate and the perpetuity growth rate. our estimates of reporting unit fair values are based on certain assumptions that may differ from our historical and future actual operating performance. specifically, assumptions related to growth in the new construction and repair and remodel segments of the u.s. home products markets drive our forecasted sales growth. the market forecasts are developed using independent third-party forecasts from multiple sources. in addition, estimated future operating income and cash flow consider our historical performance at similar levels of sales volume and management's future operating plans as reflected in annual and long-term plans that are reviewed and approved by management. purchased intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized over their useful lives unless those lives are determined to be indefinite. the determination of the useful life of an intangible asset other than goodwill is based on factors including historical tradename performance with respect to consumer name recognition, geographic market presence, market share, plans for ongoing tradename support and promotion, customer attrition rates, and other relevant factors. certain of our tradenames have been assigned an indefinite life as we currently anticipate that these tradenames will contribute cash flows to the company indefinitely. indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated at least annually to determine whether the indefinite useful life is appropriate. we measure the fair value of identifiable intangible assets upon acquisition and we review for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and whenever market or business events indicate there may be a potential impairment of that intangible. impairment losses are recorded to the extent that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value. the significant assumptions that are used to determine the estimated fair value for indefinite-lived intangible assets upon acquisition and subsequent impairment testing are forecasted revenue growth rates the assumed royalty rate and the market-participant discount rate. we measure fair value of our indefinite-lived tradenames using the standard relief-from-royalty approach which estimates the present value of royalty income that could be hypothetically earned by licensing the brand name to a third party over the remaining useful life. the determination of fair value using this technique requires the use of estimates and assumptions related to forecasted revenue growth rates, the assumed royalty rate and the market-participant discount rate. we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. qualitative factors include changes in volume, customers and the industry. if it is deemed more likely than not that an intangible asset is impaired, we will perform a quantitative impairment test. 23 table of contents in the fourth quarter of 2019, we recognized an impairment charge of $12.0 million related to an indefinite-lived tradename in our cabinets segment. this charge was the result of a strategic shift associated with new segment leadership and acceleration of our capacity rebalancing initiatives from custom cabinetry products to value-based cabinetry products as a result of lower than expected sales of custom cabinetry products compared to prior forecasts. as of december 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of this tradename equaled its carrying value of $38.6 million. in the third quarter of 2019, we recognized an impairment charge of $29.5 million related to a second indefinite-lived tradename in our cabinets segment, which was primarily the result of a continuing shift in consumer demand from semi-custom cabinetry products to value-priced cabinetry products, which led to consecutive downward adjustments of internal sales forecasts and future growth rates associated with the tradename. in the fourth quarter of 2018, we recorded an impairment charge of $35.5 million related to the same indefinite-lived tradename, which was primarily the result of lower than forecasted sales during the fourth quarter of 2018 as well as projected changes in the mix of revenue across our tradenames in future periods, including the impact of more moderate industry growth expectations, which were finalized during our annual planning process conducted during the fourth quarter of 2018. as of december 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of this tradename exceeded its carrying value of $85.0 million by less than 10%. during the third quarter of 2018, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $27.1 million related to a third indefinite-lived tradename within the cabinets segment. this charge was primarily the result of reduced revenue growth expectations associated with cabinets operations in canada, including the announced closure of company-owned retail locations. as of december 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of this tradename exceeded its carrying value of $39.1 million by less than 10%. the fair values of the impaired tradenames were measured using the relief-from-royalty approach, which estimates the present value of royalty income that could be hypothetically earned by licensing the tradename to a third party over its remaining useful life. some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include forecasted revenue growth rates for the tradename, assumed royalty rate, and a market-participant discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the tradenames' future revenues and profitability. we selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated growth rates, and management plans. these assumptions represent level 3 inputs of the fair value hierarchy (refer to note 11). a reduction in the estimated fair value of these three tradenames could trigger additional impairment charges in future periods. events or circumstances that could have a potential negative effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived tradenames include: lower than forecasted revenues, actual new construction and repair and remodel growth rates that fall below our assumptions, actions of key customers, increases in discount rates, continued economic uncertainty, higher levels of unemployment, weak consumer confidence, lower levels of discretionary consumer spending, a decrease in royalty rates and a decline in the trading price of our common stock. we cannot predict the occurrence of certain events or changes in circumstances that might adversely affect the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite-lived assets. defined benefit plans we have a number of pension plans in the united states, covering many of the company's employees however, the majority of these plans have been frozen to new participants and benefit accruals were frozen for active participants on december 31, 2016 . in addition, the company provides postretirement healthcare and life insurance benefits to certain retirees. service cost for 2019 relates to benefit accruals in an hourly union defined benefit plan in our doors security segment, which is the only remaining plan where benefit accruals have not been frozen. we recognize changes in the fair value of pension plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses in excess of 10 percent of the greater of the fair value of pension plan assets or each plan's projected benefit obligation (the corridor ) in earnings immediately upon remeasurement, which is at least annually in the fourth quarter of each year. net actuarial gains and losses occur when actual experience differs from any of the assumptions used to value defined benefit plans or when assumptions change as they may each year. the primary factors contributing to actuarial gains and losses are changes in the discount rate used to value obligations as of the measurement date and the differences between expected and actual returns on pension plan assets. this accounting method results in the potential for volatile and difficult to forecast gains and losses. the pre-tax recognition of actuarial (gains) losses was $34.7 million and $3.8 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. the total net actuarial losses in accumulated other comprehensive income for all defined benefit plans were $87.4 million as of december 31, 2019, compared to $71.5 million as of december 31, 2018. we record amounts relating to these defined benefit plans based on various actuarial assumptions, including discount rates, assumed rates of return, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. we review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to the assumptions based on current economic conditions and trends. we believe that the assumptions utilized in recording our obligations under our plans are reasonable based on our experience and on advice from 24 table of contents our independent actuaries however, differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions may materially affect our financial condition or results of operations. the expected return on plan assets is determined based on the nature of the plans' investments , our current asset allocation and our expectations for long-term rates of return. the weighted-average long-term expected rate of return on pension plan assets for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 was 4.9% and 6.0 % , respectively . compensation increases reflect expected future compensation trends. the discount rate used to measure obligations is based on a spot-rate yield curve on a plan-by-plan basis that matches projected future benefit payments with the appropriate interest rate applicable to the timing of the projected future benefit payments. the bond portfolio used for the selection of the discount rate is from the top quartile of bonds rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, and includes only non-callable bonds and those that are deemed to be sufficiently marketable with a moody's credit rating of aa or higher. the weighted-average discount rate for defined benefit liabilities as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 was 3.3% and 4.4 %, respectively. for postretirement benefits, our health care trend rate assumption is based on historical cost increases and expectations for long-term increases. as of december 31, 2019, for postretirement medical and prescription drugs in the next year, our assumption was an assumed rate of increase of 6.7% for pre-65 retirees and 7.8% for post-65 retirees, declining until reaching an ultimate assumed rate of increase of 4.5% per year in 2027. as of december 31, 2018, for postretirement medical and prescription drugs in the next year, our assumption was an assumed rate of increase of 6.9% for pre-65 retirees and 8.0% for post-65 retirees, declining until reaching an ultimate assumed rate of increase of 4.5% per year in 2027. below is a table showing pre-tax pension and postretirement expenses, including the impact of actuarial gains and losses: (in millions) 2019 2018 total pension expense (income) $ 32.3 $ (5.9 ) actuarial loss component of expense above 34.1 3.9 total postretirement expense (income) 1.1 (0.1 ) actuarial loss (gain) component of expense above 0.6 (0.1 ) amortization of prior service credit component of expense above 0.2 the actuarial losses in 2019 were principally due to changes in discount rates. the actuarial losses in 2018 were principally due to lower asset returns. discount rates in 2019 used to determine benefit obligations decreased by an average of 110 basis points for pension benefits. discount rates for 2019 postretirement benefits increased an average of 220 basis points. discount rates in 2018 used to determine benefit obligations increased by an average of 60 basis points for pension benefits. discount rates for 2018 postretirement benefits increased an average of 80 basis points. our actual return on plan assets in 2019 was 19.7% compared to an actuarial assumption of an average 4.9% expected return. our actual return on plan assets in 2018 was (3.5)% compared to an actuarial assumption of an average 6.0% expected return. significant actuarial losses in future periods would be expected if discount rates decline, actual returns on plan assets are lower than our expected return, or a combination of both occurs. a 25 basis point change in our discount rate assumption would lead to an increase or decrease in our pension and postretirement liability of approximately $28 million. a 25 basis point change in the long-term rate of return on plan assets used in accounting for our pension plans would have a $1.6 million impact on pension expense. in addition, if required, actuarial gains and losses will be recorded in accordance with our defined benefit plan accounting method as previously described. it is not possible to forecast or predict whether there will be actuarial gains and losses in future periods, and if required, the magnitude of any such adjustment. these gains and losses are driven by differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions that are beyond our control, such as changes in interest rates and the actual return on pension plan assets. income taxes in accordance with asc requirements for income taxes, we establish deferred tax liabilities or assets for temporary differences between financial and tax reporting bases and subsequently adjust them to reflect changes in tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. we record a valuation allowance reducing deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. we record liabilities for uncertain income tax positions based on a two-step process. the first step is recognition, where we evaluate whether an individual tax position has a likelihood of greater than 50% of being sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. for tax positions that are currently estimated to have a less than 50% likelihood of being sustained, no tax benefit is recorded. for tax positions that have met the recognition threshold in the first step, we perform the second step of measuring the benefit to be recorded. the actual benefits ultimately realized may differ from our estimates. in future periods, changes in facts, circumstances, and new information may require us to change the recognition and measurement estimates with regard to individual tax positions. changes in recognition and measurement estimates are recorded in the consolidated statement of income and consolidated balance sheet in the period in which such changes occur. as of december 31, 2019, we had liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits pertaining to uncertain tax positions totaling $88.0 million. it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits 25 table of contents may decrease in the range of $3.1 million to $3.8 million in the next 12 months primarily as a result of the conclusion of u.s. federal, state and foreign income tax proceedings. the tax act, enacted on december 22, 2017, made significant changes to the u.s. internal revenue code including a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after december 31, 2017, an exemption from federal income tax for dividends received from foreign subsidiaries, and an imposition of a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings and profits as of december 31, 2017. customer program costs customer programs and incentives are a common practice in our businesses. our businesses incur customer program costs to obtain favorable product placement, to promote sales of products and to maintain competitive pricing. we record estimates to reduce revenue for customer programs and incentives, which are considered variable consideration, and include price discounts, volume-based incentives, promotions and cooperative advertising when revenue is recognized in order to determine the amount of consideration the company will ultimately be entitled to receive. these estimates are based on historical and projected experience for each type of customer. in addition, for certain customer program incentives, we receive an identifiable benefit (goods or services) in exchange for the consideration given and record the associated expenditure in selling, general and administrative expenses. volume allowances are accrued based on management's estimates of customer volume achievement and other factors incorporated into customer agreements, such as new products, store sell-through, merchandising support, levels of returns and customer training. management periodically reviews accruals for these rebates and allowances, and adjusts accruals when circumstances indicate (typically as a result of a change in volume expectations). the costs typically recognized in selling, general and administrative expenses include product displays, point of sale materials and media production costs. litigation contingencies our businesses are subject to risks related to threatened or pending litigation and are routinely defendants in lawsuits associated with the normal conduct of business. liabilities and costs associated with litigation-related loss contingencies require estimates and judgments based on our knowledge of the facts and circumstances surrounding each matter and the advice of our legal counsel. we record liabilities for litigation-related losses when a loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss in accordance with asc requirements for contingencies. we evaluate the measurement of recorded liabilities each reporting period based on the then-current facts and circumstances specific to each matter. the ultimate losses incurred upon final resolution of litigation-related loss contingencies may differ materially from the estimated liability recorded at any particular balance sheet date. changes in estimates are recorded in earnings in the period in which such changes occur. environmental matters we are involved in remediation activities to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. liabilities for remediation costs of each site are based on our best estimate of undiscounted future costs, excluding possible insurance recoveries or recoveries from other third parties. uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop estimates of future environmental remediation exposures. some of the potential liabilities relate to sites we own, and some relate to sites we no longer own or never owned. several of our subsidiaries have been designated as potentially responsible parties ( prp ) under superfund or similar state laws. as of december 31, 2019, ten such instances have not been dismissed, settled or otherwise resolved. in 2019, none of our subsidiaries were identified as a prp in a new instance and no instances were settled, dismissed or otherwise resolved. in most instances where our subsidiaries are named as a prp, we enter into cost-sharing arrangements with other prps. we give notice to insurance carriers of potential prp liability, but very rarely, if ever, receive reimbursement from insurance for prp costs. we believe that the cost of complying with the present environmental protection laws, before considering estimated recoveries either from other prps or insurance, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. at december 31, 2019 and 2018, we had accruals of $0.2 and $0.6 million, respectively, relating to environmental compliance and cleanup including, but not limited to, the above mentioned superfund sites. 26 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. we enter into financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. the counterparties are major financial institutions. interest rate risk the company does not have external variable rate borrowings as of december 31, 2019. foreign exchange rate risk we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts principally to hedge currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result from changes in exchange rates. the periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts represents the amount required to enter into offsetting contracts with similar remaining maturities based on quoted market prices. the estimated potential loss under foreign exchange contracts from movement in foreign exchange rates would not have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. as part of our risk management procedure, we use a value-at-risk ( var ) sensitivity analysis model to estimate the maximum potential economic loss from adverse changes in foreign exchange rates over a one-day period given a 95% confidence level. the var model uses historical foreign exchange rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. the estimated maximum one-day loss in the fair value of the company's foreign currency exchange contracts using the var model was $0.6 million at december 31, 2019. the 95% confidence interval signifies our degree of confidence that actual losses under foreign exchange contracts would not exceed the estimated losses. the amounts disregard the possibility that foreign currency exchange rates could move in our favor. the var model assumes that all movements in the foreign exchange rates will be adverse. these amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, since actual results may differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets. the var model is a risk analysis tool and should not be construed as an endorsement of the var model or the accuracy of the related assumptions. commodity price risk we are subject to commodity price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, geopolitical and economic variables, and other unpredictable external factors. from time to time, we use derivative contracts to manage our exposure to commodity price volatility. 27 table of contents