risk factors on page 9). the company we currently serve our customers (healthcare providers, pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers, and certain specialty drug patients) through a geographically diverse network of distribution service centers and other operations in the united states and selected global markets. in our pharmaceutical distribution business, we are typically the primary supplier of pharmaceutical and related products to our healthcare provider customers. we offer a broad range of services to our customers designed to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, which allow them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and to lower overall costs in the pharmaceutical supply channel. strategy our business strategy is focused on the global pharmaceutical supply channel where we provide value-added distribution and service solutions to healthcare providers (primarily pharmacies, health systems, medical and dialysis clinics, physicians, and veterinarians) and pharmaceutical manufacturers that increase channel efficiencies and improve patient outcomes. implementing this disciplined, focused strategy has allowed us to significantly expand our business, and we believe we are well-positioned to continue to grow revenue and increase operating income through the execution of the following key elements of our business strategy: optimize and grow our pharmaceutical distribution and service businesses. we believe we are well-positioned in size and market breadth to continue to grow our distribution business as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. distribution anchors our growth and position in the pharmaceutical supply channel, as we provide superior distribution services and deliver value-added solutions, which improve the efficiency and competitiveness of both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, thus allowing the pharmaceutical supply channel to better deliver healthcare to patients. with the rapid growth of generic pharmaceuticals in the u.s. market, we have introduced strategies to enhance our position in the generic marketplace, including our generic private label program based in ireland. we source generics globally, offer a value-added generic formulary program to our healthcare provider customers, and monitor our customers' compliance with our generics program. we also provide data and other valuable services to our manufacturing customers, which includes the current expansion of our international presence into switzerland, where we lead our global manufacturer relations and commercialization strategy. we offer value-added services and solutions to assist healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers to improve their efficiency and their patient outcomes. services for manufacturers include: assistance with rapid new product launches, promotional and marketing services to accelerate product sales, product data reporting, and logistical support. our provider solutions include: our good neighbor pharmacy program, which enables independent community pharmacies to compete more effectively through pharmaceutical benefit and merchandising programs; elevate provider network , our managed care network, which connects our retail pharmacy customers to payor plans throughout the country and is one of the largest in the u.s.; generic product purchasing and private label services; hospital pharmacy consulting designed to improve operational efficiencies; and packaging solutions for institutional and retail healthcare providers. we believe we have one of the lowest cost operating structures among all pharmaceutical distributors. amerisourcebergen drug corporation ("abdc") has a distribution facility network totaling 26 distribution facilities in the united states. this network includes a national distribution center in columbus, oh, which offers pharmaceutical manufacturers a single shipping destination. we continue to seek opportunities to achieve productivity and operating income gains as we invest in and continue to implement warehouse automation technology, adopt "best practices" in warehousing activities, and increase operating leverage by increasing volume per full-service distribution facility. 2 table of contents in march 2013, we and walgreens boots alliance, inc. ("wba") entered into various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between wba and us pursuant to which we distribute branded and generic pharmaceutical products to wba and an agreement that provides us the ability to access generics and related pharmaceutical products through a global sourcing arrangement with walgreens boots alliance development gmbh ("wbad"). in may 2016, our distribution agreement with wba and our global sourcing arrangement with wbad were extended to now expire in 2026. the increased volume associated with the distribution agreement improved our distribution center efficiency and our access to wbad continues to improve our purchasing power. in an effort to supplement our organic growth, we continue to utilize a disciplined approach to seek acquisitions that will assist us with our strategic growth plans. in november 2015, we acquired pharmedium healthcare holdings, inc. ("pharmedium"), the leading national provider of outsourced compounded sterile preparations ("csps") to acute care hospitals in the united states. pharmedium is the premier provider of customized outsourced csps that meet specific hospital and physician clinical needs and quality standards in formulations that are not otherwise commercially available. pharmedium delivers "sterile to sterile" csps in a ready to use form with enhanced safety, labeling, sterility assurance, and extended expiration dating supported by appropriate studies that often exceeds what hospital pharmacies can accomplish on their own. the csps are prepared in state-of-the-art, fda and state board of pharmacy inspected facilities, using only fda-approved or allowed drugs in finished dosage form and fda-approved diluents and fda-cleared containers (see risk factor increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability) . pharmedium maintains four section 503b outsourcing facilities, provides a broad range of 2,000 skus, and serves over 3,000 hospital customers across all 50 states. the acquisition of pharmedium strengthened our core business and meaningfully expanded our innovative service offerings to our health systems customers. optimize and grow our specialty distribution and service businesses. our specialty pharmaceuticals business has a significant presence in this growing part of the pharmaceutical supply channel. with distribution and value-added services to physicians and other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics, our specialty pharmaceuticals business is a well-developed platform for growth. we are a leader in distribution and services to community oncologists and have leading positions in other physician-administered products. we also distribute plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals, and vaccines. additionally, we are well-positioned to service and support many of the new biotechnology therapies that will be coming to market in the near future. we continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in specialty distribution and services. in fiscal 2014, we expanded globally by acquiring a minority ownership in profarma distribuidora de produtos farmac uticos s.a. ("profarma"), a leading pharmaceutical wholesaler in brazil. in addition, we launched a joint venture with profarma to provide enhanced specialty distribution and services to the brazilian marketplace. optimize and grow our manufacturer services businesses. our consulting service businesses help global pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers commercialize their products in the channel. we believe we are the largest provider of reimbursement services that assist pharmaceutical companies in supporting access to branded drugs. we also provide outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and copay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to pharmaceutical companies. world courier group, inc. ("world courier"), is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. world courier further strengthens our service offerings to global pharmaceutical manufacturers and provides an established platform for the introduction of our specialty services outside north america. we continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in consulting and other services. optimize and grow our animal health distribution and service business. in february 2015, we acquired mwi veterinary supply, inc. ("mwi"), a leading animal health distribution company in the united states and in the united kingdom. mwi sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. mwi also offers its customers a variety of value-added services, including its e-commerce platform, technology management systems, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory management system, equipment procurement consultation, special order fulfillment, and educational seminars, which we believe closely integrate mwi with its customers' day-to-day operations and provide them with meaningful incentives to continue doing business with mwi. we continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in animal health distribution and services. divestitures. in order to allow us to concentrate on our strategic focus areas of pharmaceutical distribution and related services and specialty pharmaceutical distribution and related services, we have divested certain non-core businesses and may, from time to time, consider additional divestitures. 3 table of contents operations operating structure. we are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our customers. our operations as of september 30, 2016 are comprised of the pharmaceutical distribution reportable segment and other. see note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for reportable segment information. pharmaceutical distribution segment the pharmaceutical distribution reportable segment is comprised of two operating segments, which include the operations of abdc and amerisourcebergen specialty group ("absg"). servicing healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the pharmaceutical distribution segment's operations provide drug distribution and related services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes. abdc distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals (including specialty pharmaceutical products), over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, outsourced csps, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. abdc also provides pharmacy management, staffing and additional consulting services, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. additionally, abdc delivers packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. absg, through a number of operating businesses, provides pharmaceutical distribution and additional services to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics. absg also distributes plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty products. additionally, absg provides third party logistics, outcomes research, and additional services for biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturers. our use of the terms "specialty" and "specialty pharmaceutical products" refer to drugs used to treat complex diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis. specialty pharmaceutical products are part of complex treatment regimens for serious conditions and diseases that generally require ongoing clinical monitoring. we believe the terms "specialty" and "specialty pharmaceutical products" are used consistently by industry participants and our competitors. however, we cannot be certain that other distributors of specialty products define these and other similar terms in exactly the same manner as we do. both abdc and absg distribute specialty drugs to their customers, with the principal difference between these two operating segments being that absg operates distribution facilities that focus primarily on complex disease treatment regimens. therefore, a product distributed from one of absg's distribution facilities results in revenue reported under absg, and a product distributed from one of abdc's distribution centers results in revenue reported under abdc. essentially all of absg sales consist of specialty pharmaceutical products. abdc sales of specialty pharmaceutical products have historically been a relatively small component of its overall revenue. other other consists of the amerisourcebergen consulting services ("abcs") operating segment, the world courier operating segment, and the mwi operating segment. the results of operations of these operating segments are not significant enough to require separate reportable segment disclosure, and therefore, have been included in "other" for the purpose of our reportable segment presentation. abcs, through a number of operating businesses, provides commercialization support services, including reimbursement support programs, outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and co-pay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers. world courier, which operates in over 50 countries, is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. mwi is a leading animal health distribution company in the united states and in the united kingdom. mwi sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. sales and marketing. the majority of abdc's sales force is led nationally, with geographic focus and specialized by either healthcare provider type or size. customer service representatives are centralized in order to respond to customer needs in a timely and effective manner. abdc also has support professionals focused on its various technologies and service offerings. abdc's marketing organization designs and develops business management solutions for amerisourcebergen healthcare provider customers. tailored to specific groups, these programs can be further customized at the business unit or distribution facility level to adapt to local market conditions. abdc's sales teams and marketing organization also serve national account customers through close coordination with local distribution centers and ensure that our customers are receiving service offerings that meet their 4 table of contents needs. our other operating segments each have independent sales forces and marketing organizations that specialize in their respective product and service offerings. in addition, we have a corporate marketing group that coordinates branding and other marketing activities across the company. customers. we have a diverse customer base that includes institutional and retail healthcare providers as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. institutional healthcare providers include acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long-term care and other alternate care pharmacies, and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, physicians, and physician group practices. retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore chains, independent community pharmacies, pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, and veterinarians. we are typically the primary source of supply for our healthcare provider customers. our manufacturing customers include branded, generic, and biotechnology manufacturers of prescription pharmaceuticals, as well as over-the-counter product and health and beauty aid manufacturers. in addition, we offer a broad range of value-added solutions designed to enhance the operating efficiencies and competitive positions of our customers, thereby allowing them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and consumers. our two largest customers, wba and express scripts, inc. ("express scripts"), accounted for 30% and 16% , respectively, of our fiscal 2016 revenue. our top 10 customers, including governmental agencies and group purchasing organizations ("gpos"), represented approximately 65% of fiscal 2016 revenue. the loss of any major customer or gpo relationship could adversely affect future revenue and results of operations. suppliers. we obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which accounted for 10% or more of our purchases in fiscal 2016 . the loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable since we are committed to be the primary source of pharmaceutical products for a majority of our customers. we believe that our relationships with our suppliers are good. the 10 largest suppliers in fiscal 2016 accounted for approximately 45% of our purchases. information systems. the abdc operating segment operates its full-service wholesale pharmaceutical distribution facilities in the u.s. on a centralized enterprise resource planning ("erp") system. abdc's erp system provides for, among other things, electronic order entry by customers, invoice preparation and purchasing, and inventory tracking. all of our other operating segments operate the majority of their businesses on their own common, centralized erp systems resulting in operating efficiencies as well as the ability to rapidly deploy new capabilities. we expect to make significant investments over the next few years to enhance and upgrade the erp systems utilized by our other operating segments. additionally, over the next couple of years, we intend to improve our entity-wide infrastructure environment to drive efficiency, capabilities, and speed to market. we will continue to invest in advanced information systems and automated warehouse technology. for example, in an effort to comply with future pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements (see risk factor - increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability) , we expect to continue to make significant investments in our secure supply chain information systems. in fiscal 2016, abdc began to make significant investments in its electronic ordering systems. these investments will continue into fiscal 2017. abdc's systems are intended to strengthen customer relationships by allowing the customer to lower its operating costs and by providing a platform for a number of the basic and value-added services offered to our customers, including product demand data, inventory replenishment, single-source billing, third party claims processing, real-time price and incentive updates, and price labels. abdc processes a substantial portion of its purchase orders, invoices, and payments electronically. however, it continues to make substantial investments to expand its electronic interface with its suppliers. abdc has a warehouse operating system, which is used to manage the majority of abdc's transactional volume. the warehouse operating system has improved abdc's productivity and operating leverage. a significant portion of our information technology activities relating to abdc and our corporate functions are outsourced to ibm global services and other third party service providers. competition we face a highly competitive global environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. our largest competitors are mckesson corporation ("mckesson") and cardinal health, inc. ("cardinal"). abdc competes with both mckesson and cardinal, as well as national generic distributors and regional distributors within pharmaceutical distribution. in addition, we compete with manufacturers who sell directly to customers, chain drugstores who manage their own warehousing, specialty distributors, and packaging and healthcare technology companies. the distribution and related service businesses in 5 table of contents which absg engages are also highly competitive. absg's operating businesses face competition from a variety of competitors, including mckesson, cardinal, fff enterprises, henry schein, inc., and ups logistics, among others. our abcs, world courier, and mwi businesses also face competition from a variety of competitors. in all areas, competitive factors include price, product offerings, value-added service programs, service and delivery, credit terms, and customer support. intellectual property we use a number of trademarks and service marks. all of the principal trademarks and service marks used in the course of our business have been registered in the united states and, in some cases, in foreign jurisdictions or are the subject of pending applications for registration. we have developed or acquired various proprietary products, processes, software, and other intellectual property that are used either to facilitate the conduct of our business or that are made available as products or services to customers. we generally seek to protect such intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, patent and copyright laws, and through confidentiality and other contractually imposed protections. we hold patents and have patent applications pending that relate to certain of our products, particularly our automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, our medication and supply dispensing equipment, certain warehousing equipment, and some of our proprietary packaging solutions. we seek patent protection for our proprietary intellectual property from time to time as appropriate. although we believe that our patents or other proprietary products and processes do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time. employees as of september 30, 2016 , we had approximately 19,000 employees, of which approximately 18,000 were full-time employees. approximately 2% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. if any of our employees in locations that are unionized should engage in strikes or other such bargaining tactics in connection with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements upon the expiration of any existing collective bargaining agreements, such tactics could be disruptive to our operations and adversely affect our results of operations, but we believe we have adequate contingency plans in place to assure delivery of pharmaceuticals to our customers in the event of any such disruptions. government regulation we are subject to extensive oversight by various federal and state governmental entities and we are subject to, and affected by, a variety of federal and state laws, regulations, and policies. the u.s. drug enforcement administration ("dea"), the u.s. food and drug administration ("fda"), and various other federal and state regulatory authorities regulate the compounding, purchase, storage, and/or distribution of pharmaceutical products, including controlled substances. wholesale distributors of controlled substances and entities that compound pharmaceuticals that contain controlled substances must hold valid dea licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with regulations governing the sale, marketing, compounding, packaging, holding, and distribution of controlled substances. our section 503b outsourcing facilities must comply with current good manufacturing practices ("gmps") and are inspected by the fda periodically to determine that we are complying with such gmps. the dea, fda, and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers or section 503b outsourcing facilities from distributing controlled substances, seize or recall products, and impose significant criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions. we have all necessary licenses or other regulatory approvals and believe that we are in compliance with all applicable pharmaceutical compounding and wholesale distribution requirements needed to conduct our current operations. we and our customers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute. the anti-kickback statute prohibits persons from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in order to induce the purchasing, leasing, or ordering, induce a referral to purchase, lease, or order, or arrange for or recommend purchasing, leasing, or ordering items or services that are in any way paid for by medicare, medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. the fraud and abuse laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to frequent and varied interpretation. in recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety of the pharmaceutical supply channel. these laws and regulations are designed to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated, or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. at the federal level, congress has enacted legislation to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system by establishing federal pedigree tracking standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level. this same legislation establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers and calls for enhanced regulation of csps, including heightened compliance, reporting, labeling, and inspection 6 table of contents standards. the legislation also creates section 503b outsourcing facilities as a new category for providers of csps, allowing such facilities to voluntarily register with the fda. our csp business locations have registered with the fda as section 503b outsourcing facilities and have implemented policies and procedures to achieve compliance with current legislative requirements for such facilities. however, there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the new requirements, and any failure to comply may result in additional costs to bring our csp facilities into compliance. these and other requirements will continue to increase the cost of our operations. federal insurance and health care reform legislation known as the affordable care act became law in march 2010. the affordable care act is intended to expand health insurance, including coverage for at least a portion of drug costs, through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of medicaid, subsidies, and health insurance mandates. the affordable care act contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of medicare and medicaid. among other things, the affordable care act changed the formula for medicaid federal upper limits for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to no less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price. further, recent regulations require state medicaid programs to implement payment mechanisms for branded prescription drugs which are consistent with pharmacies' "actual acquisition costs" for drugs. these provisions could reduce prescription drug reimbursement levels under state medicaid programs. as a result of political, economic, and regulatory influences, scrutiny of the healthcare delivery system in the united states can be expected to continue at both the state and federal levels. this process may result in additional legislation and/or regulation governing the production, delivery, or pricing of pharmaceutical products, as well as additional changes to the structure of the present healthcare delivery system. in addition, changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant additional compliance costs or the discontinuation of our ability to continue to operate our distribution centers or section 503b outsourcing facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. any future reductions in medicare or medicaid reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase drugs from us. we cannot predict what additional initiatives, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, including with respect to the sale, transportion, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices. the costs, burdens, and/or impacts of complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. see "risk factors" below for a discussion of additional legal and regulatory developments, as well as enforcement actions or other litigation that may arise out of our failure to adequately comply with applicable laws and regulations that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. health information and privacy practices the health information portability and accountability act of 1996 ("hipaa") and its implementing regulations set forth privacy and security standards designed to protect the privacy of and provide for the security of protected health information, as such term is defined under the hipaa regulations. some of our businesses collect, maintain, and/or access protected health information and are subject to the hipaa regulations. our operations, depending on their location, may also be subject to state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and the manner in which information services or products are provided. significant criminal and civil penalties may be imposed for violation of hipaa standards and other such laws. we have a hipaa compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with the hipaa regulations. the health information technology for economic and clinical health act ("hitech act"), enacted as part of the 2009 american recovery and reinvestment act ("arra") strengthened federal privacy and security provisions governing protected health information. among other things, the hitech expanded certain aspects of the hipaa privacy and security rules, imposed new notification requirements related to health data security breaches, broadened the rights of the u.s. department of health and human services ("hhs") to enforce hipaa, and directed hhs to publish more specific security standards. on january 25, 2013, the office for civil rights of hhs published the hipaa omnibus final rule ("hipaa final rule"), which amended certain aspects of the hipaa privacy, security, and enforcement rules pursuant to the hitech act, extending certain hipaa obligations to business associates and their subcontractors. certain components of our business act as "business associates" within the meaning of hipaa and are subject to these additional obligations under the hipaa final rule. some of our businesses collect, maintain, and/or access other sensitive personal information that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information, in addition to the requirements of hipaa, the hitech act and the implementing regulations. security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate, 7 table of contents and such regulations continue to evolve. additionally, we need to comply with applicable privacy and security requirements of countries throughout the world in which we maintain operations, including but not limited to those in the european union. there can be no assurances that compliance with these requirements will not impose new costs on our business. available information for more information about us, visit our website at www.amerisourcebergen.com . the contents of the website are not part of this form 10-k. our electronic filings with the securities and exchange commission (including all forms 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k, and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge through the "investor relations" section of our website immediately after we electronically file with or furnish them to the securities and exchange commission and may also be viewed using their website at www.sec.gov . 8 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. these risk factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report. our results of operations are impacted by prices set by manufacturers and the profitability of future generic pharmaceutical launches. certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have an inflation-based compensation component to them. as a result, our gross profit from brand-name and generic manufacturers continues to be subject to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of manufacturer price increases, which we do not control. if the frequency or rate of branded and generic pharmaceutical price increases slows, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, generic pharmaceuticals are also subject to price deflation. if the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. a decline in the number of generic pharmaceutical launches, or launches that are less profitable than those in the past, could also adversely impact our results of operations. in fiscal 2016, we experienced unfavorable trends in brand and generic pharmaceutical pricing. those trends are expected to continue in fiscal 2017, and could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. competition and industry consolidation may erode our profit. as described in greater detail in the competition section beginning on page 5, the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. in addition, in recent years the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation, including among pharmaceutical manufacturers. if we do not compete successfully, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the impact on us will be greater if consolidation among our customers, suppliers, and competitors gives the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may lead to greater pressure to reduce prices for our products and services. our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer upon the loss of a significant customer or group purchasing organization. wba accounted for 30% of our revenue in fiscal 2016 . express scripts accounted for 16% of our revenue in fiscal 2016 . our top ten customers, including governmental agencies and gpos, represented approximately 65% of fiscal 2016 revenue. we may lose a significant customer or gpo relationship if any existing contract with such customer or gpo expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or gpo prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. a number of our contracts with significant customers or gpos are typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or gpo relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. the loss of any significant customer or gpo relationship could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. the healthcare industry in the united states is highly regulated at the federal and state levels. there have been increasing efforts by congress and state and federal agencies, including state boards of pharmacy, departments of health and the fda, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system and pharmacy compounding activities. regulation of pharmaceutical distribution is intended to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated, and/or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system. consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the dea, the fda, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. in recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution and pharmaceutical compounding. at the federal level, final regulations issued pursuant to the prescription drug marketing act impose pedigree tracking and other chain of custody requirements that increase the costs and/or burden to us of selling to other pharmaceutical distributors and handling product returns. in addition, the fda amendments act of 2007 requires the fda to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. these standards include track-and-trace and/or authentication technologies that leverage data carriers applied by the manufacturer to the sellable units and cases. the fda is also required to develop a standardized numerical identifier ("sni"). in march 2010, the fda issued guidance regarding the development of snis for prescription drug packages in which the fda identified package-level snis, as an initial step in the fda's development of additional measures to secure the drug supply chain. in november 2013, 9 table of contents congress passed the drug quality and security act ("dqsa"). the dqsa establishes federal traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and will eventually require all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system. the dsqa also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third party logistics providers, including licensing requirements in states that had not previously licensed such entities. one additional change resulting from the dqsa is the creation of section 503b outsourcing facilities as a new category for producers of compounded sterile preparations ( csps ), allowing such facilities to voluntarily register with the fda. our csp business locations have registered with the fda as section 503b outsourcing facilities and have implemented policies and procedures to achieve compliance with current dqsa requirements for such facilities. however, there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the new requirements, and any failure to comply may result in additional costs to bring our csp facilities into compliance. moreover, the fda continues to issue draft and final guidance in its efforts to implement the requirements in dqsa, including those relating to current good manufacturing practices and other matters related to 503b outsourcing facilities, which may require changes to our csp business, some of which may be significant. complying with these and other supply chain of custody and pharmaceutical compounding requirements will increase our costs and could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. the suspension or revocation by federal or state authorities of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our distribution and 503b outsourcing facilities to purchase, compound, store, and/or distribute pharmaceuticals and controlled substances, the refusal by such authorities to issue a registration to any such facility, or any enforcement action or other litigation that arises out of our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing distribution and 503b outsourcing facilities may adversely affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations. the dea, fda, and various other federal and state regulatory authorities regulate the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances and the compounding of pharmaceuticals that contain controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the controlled substances act and its implementing regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, compounding, holding and distribution of controlled substances. government authorities may from time to time investigate whether we are in compliance with various security and operating standards applicable to the distribution of controlled substances including whether we are adequately detecting and preventing the illegal diversion of controlled substances. although we have procedures in place that are intended to ensure compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would conclude that our operations are compliant with applicable laws and regulations. if we were found to be non-compliant with such laws and regulations, federal and state authorities have broad enforcement powers, including (i) the ability to suspend our distribution centers' and 503b outsourcing facilities' licenses to distribute and compound pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), (ii) seize or recall products and (iii) impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. we have received, and may in the future receive, requests for information, letters and subpoenas from the dea, fda, various united states attorneys' offices of the united states department of justice, and/or state regulatory authorities and agencies related to our distribution of controlled substances, our order monitoring program, which is designed to prevent and detect the illegal diversion of controlled substances, or other matters. we generally respond to subpoenas, requests, letters and other authority and/or agency correspondence in a thorough and timely manner. these responses require time and effort and can result in considerable costs being incurred by the company, such as costs related to addressing the observations listed on fda form 483 reports. such subpoenas, requests and letters can also lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of civil, criminal, or regulatory legal proceedings against the company, as well as to settlements and the suspension or revocation of registrations required by our distribution and 503b outsourcing facilities, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. the fda and other governmental entities enforce compliance with applicable current gmp requirements under applicable state law through periodic risk-based inspections. it is common for fda form 483 reports to be provided in connection with inspections of 503b outsourcing facilities, and fda observations may be followed by warning letters or subsequent enforcement actions. prior to our acquisition of the business, pharmedium received a warning letter from the fda in 2014 following the inspection of pharmedium's mississippi, new jersey, tennessee and texas 503b outsourcing facilities in 2013. the fda reinspected all of these facilities in 2015 and 2016 and issued fda form 483 reports at each of the facilities as well as at pharmedium's headquarters in lake forest, illinois. we cannot be assured that the fda will be satisfied with the sufficiency or timing of pharmedium's corrective actions in response to the agency's form 483 reports and, as such, we cannot predict when or if the fda will consider the agency's observations to be fully resolved. a failure to adequately address observations identified by the fda in form 483 reports or warning letters issued by the fda or observations identified by any other federal and state regulatory authority, including a failure to resolve the observations identified by the fda in the 2014 warning letter and subsequent 10 table of contents fda form 483 reports relating to pharmedium's 503b outsourcing facilities, could lead to an enforcement action, monetary penalties and/or license revocation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. legal, regulatory and legislative changes may adversely affect our business and results of operations. both our business and our customers' businesses may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. additionally, on occasion, price increases on certain branded and generic pharmaceuticals have been the subject of u.s. congressional inquiries. any regulation impacting pharmaceutical pricing could adversely affect our operations. federal insurance and health care reform legislation known as the affordable care act became law in march 2010. the affordable care act is intended to expand health insurance coverage, including coverage for at least a portion of drug costs through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. the affordable care act contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of medicare and medicaid. given the scope of the changes made by the affordable care act and the ongoing implementation efforts, we cannot predict the impact of every aspect of the law on our operations. likewise, we cannot predict the impact of any efforts to change or repeal any provisions of the affordable care act. the affordable care act changed the formula for medicaid federal upper limits ( fuls ) for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to a limit of not less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price ("amp"). on february 1, 2016, cms published its final rule with comment period to implement the affordable care act's medicaid covered outpatient drug provisions, under which cms will calculate fuls for multiple source drugs as 175 percent of the weighted average of amps, with certain exceptions. in addition, the rule requires state medicaid programs to implement payment methods for brand (non-multiple source) products designed to be consistent with such drugs' actual acquisition cost ( aac ). the rule was generally effective on april 1, 2016, and states had until may 2016 to implement the fuls and until april 1, 2017 to implement any changes necessary in light of the aac standard. medicaid reimbursement for drugs calculated under the final rule may represent significant reductions from prior reimbursement levels, although the impact of the changes depend upon how the changes are implemented by each state medicaid program. any reduction in the medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for multisource pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. the affordable care act also amended the medicaid rebate statute to increase minimum medicaid rebates paid by pharmaceutical manufacturers and made other changes expected to result in increased medicaid rebate payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers, which could indirectly impact our business. in addition, the bipartisan budget act of 2015, signed into law on november 2, 2015, extended to generic drugs inflation-based medicaid drug rebates similar to those that are paid on brand drugs. the federal government and state governments could take other actions in the future that impact medicaid reimbursement and rebate amounts. there can be no assurance that recent or future changes in medicaid prescription drug reimbursement policies will not have an adverse impact on our business. unless we are able to develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement and related reporting requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 significantly expanded medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the medicare part d program. the part d program has increased the use of pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has had a positive impact on our revenues and profitability. there have been additional legislative and regulatory changes to the part d program since its enactment. there can be no assurances that recent and future changes to the part d program will not have an adverse impact on our business. the federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce medicare and/or medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on health care entities. for instance, under the "sequestration" provision of the budget control act of 2011, a 2% cut is being made to medicare provider and plan payments, generally effective for services provided on or after april 1, 2013. any future reductions in medicare reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us. at this time, we can provide no assurances that future medicare and/or medicaid payment or policy changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. 11 table of contents absg's business may be adversely affected in the future by the impact of declining reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and other economic factors. absg sells specialty drugs directly to physicians and community oncology practices and provides a number of services to or through physicians. drugs that are administered in a physician's office, such as drugs that are infused or injected, are typically covered under medicare part b. declining reimbursement rates for medicare part b drugs and other economic factors have caused a number of physician practices, including some of our customers, to move from private practice to hospital settings, where they may purchase their specialty drugs under hospital prime vendor arrangements rather than from specialty distributors like absg. although this trend has slowed down in the past year, it could increase in the future due to various factors, including legislative and regulatory requirements that affect how cms reimburses for medicare part b drugs, as well as the ability of certain hospitals to purchase drugs at significant, statutorily-mandated discounts pursuant to the federal 340b drug discount program for groups of patients. in addition, federal changes in drug reimbursement policy could reduce the rate of reimbursement for drugs covered under medicare part b or physician services under medicare, which could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us, and thereby result in corresponding declines in absg's profitability. for instance, cms published a proposed rule on march 11, 2016 that would establish a program to test new medicare payment methods for certain part b drugs to determine whether alternative payment designs will reduce medicare expenditures while maintaining quality of care; that proposed rule has not yet been finalized. at this time, we can provide no assurances that future medicare reimbursement or policy changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. changes to the united states healthcare environment may negatively impact our business and our profitability. our products and services are intended to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement system currently existing in the united states. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. these changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain medicare funding affecting our healthcare provider customer base; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and customers; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. we expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding at the state or federal level for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, pharmaceutical compounding, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. we expect continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. the federal government continues to strengthen its scrutiny of practices potentially involving healthcare fraud affecting medicare, medicaid and other government healthcare programs. our relationships with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by medicare, medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under medicare and medicaid programs. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse, and these enforcement authorities were further expanded by the affordable care act. while we believe that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical sales, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in medicare, medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by qui tam litigation or other legal proceedings. our business involves the manufacture, distribution and dispensing of healthcare products, which may cause us to become involved in legal disputes or proceedings. violations of various federal and state laws governing the marketing, sale, purchase and dispensing of pharmaceutical products can result in criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health programs. any settlement, judgment or fine that is in excess of our insurance limits, or that is not otherwise covered, could adversely affect our results of operations. 12 table of contents among other things, statutory and/or regulatory violations can form the basis for qui tam complaints to be filed. the qui tam provisions of the federal and various state civil false claims acts authorize a private person, known as a relator, to file civil actions under these statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. under false claims acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes obligations on government authorities to investigate the allegations and determine whether or not to intervene in the action. such cases may involve allegations around the marketing, sale, purchase, and/or dispensing of branded and/or generic pharmaceutical products and wrongdoing in the marketing, sale, purchase and/or dispensing of such products. such complaints are filed under seal and remain sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. the company has learned that there are filings in one or more federal district courts that are under seal and may involve allegations against the company (and/or subsidiaries or businesses of the company, including our group purchasing organization for oncologists and our oncology distribution business) relating to its distribution of certain pharmaceutical products to providers. with regard to any of these filings, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if qui tam complaints are filed against us for alleged violations of any health laws and regulations and damages arising from resultant false claims, if government authorities decide to intervene in any such matters and/or if we are found liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such matters. the products compounded by our csp business are administered by our customers to patients intravenously, and failures or errors in production, labeling or packaging could contribute to patient harm or death, which may subject us to significant liabilities and reputational harm. the production, labeling and packaging of csps is inherently risky. our csp business sells csps to acute care hospitals, freestanding hospital outpatient departments and ambulatory surgery centers, who then administer the csps to patients intravenously or through other injectable routes of administration. there are a number of factors that could result in the injury or death of a patient who receives one of our csps, including quality issues, manufacturing or labeling flaws, improper packaging or unanticipated or improper uses of the products, any of which could result from human or other error. any of these situations could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, we may voluntarily recall or retrieve products. any recall or retreival, whether voluntary or requested by the fda or state regulatory authorities, could result in significant costs and negative publicity. negative publicity, including regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market acceptance of our products, harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, result in the loss of customers, lead to product withdrawals and harm our ability to successfully launch new products and services. these problems could also result in enforcement actions by state and federal authorities or other healthcare self-regulatory bodies, or product liability claims or lawsuits, including those brought by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class or establish multidistrict litigation proceedings. any such action, litigation, recall or reputational harm, even recalls or negative publicity resulting from patient harm or death caused by csps prepared by a competitor or a hospital pharmacy, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. because of the increasing cost of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. a disruption in our distribution or global sourcing arrangements with wba could adversely affect our business and financial results. we act as the primary wholesale distribution source for walgreens' pharmacies in the united states with respect to branded and generic prescription drugs. we are the primary distributor of branded and generic pharmaceuticals for wba. our generic pharmaceutical program has also benefited from the global sourcing arrangement with wba. if the operations of wba are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether by natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory or governmental action, or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business and our sales and profitability. if the global sourcing arrangement does not continue to be successful, our margins and results of operations could also be adversely affected. if our operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, we may have an obligation to pay or credit wba for failure to supply products. in addition, upon the expiration or termination of the distribution agreement or global sourcing arrangement, there can be no assurance that we or wba will be willing to renew, on terms favorable to us or at all. in addition, our business may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that wba experiences, including any disruptions of certain of its existing distribution facilities or retail pharmacies resulting from ongoing inspections by the dea and/or state regulatory agencies and possible revocation of the controlled substance registrations for those facilities and pharmacies. 13 table of contents the anticipated ongoing strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with wba may not be realized. in may 2016, we extended to 2026 our strategic arrangement with wba with the expectation that it would result in various benefits including, among other things, continued cost savings and operating efficiencies, innovation and sharing of best practices. the processes and initiatives needed to achieve and maintain these benefits are complex, costly and time-consuming. achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement on an ongoing basis is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including: the potential inability to realize and/or delays in realizing potential benefits resulting from participation in our global sourcing arrangement with wbad, including improved generic drug pricing and terms, improved service fees from generic manufacturers, cost savings, innovations, or other benefits due to its inability to negotiate successfully with generic manufacturers or otherwise to perform as expected; the potential disruption of our plans and operations as a result of this strategic arrangement, including any disruption of our cash flow and ability to return value to our stockholders in accordance with our past practices and any reduction in our operational, strategic or financial flexibility; potential changes in supplier relationships and terms; unexpected or unforeseen costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by us related to the transaction or the overall strategic relationship; unforeseen changes in the economic terms under which we distribute pharmaceuticals to wba; and whether the unique corporate cultures of separate organizations will continue to work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner. in addition, wba has the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the framework and shareholder agreements dated march 18, 2013 to make additional investments in our common stock. any sales in the public market of common stock currently held by wba or acquired by wba pursuant to open market purchases could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. we could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances, or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate resulting from the framework and shareholder agreements. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased benefits and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected future benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and the price of our common stock. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate. as part of our strategy we have recently completed, and expect to continue to pursue, acquisitions of other companies. at any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions, not all of which will be consummated. we make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations. acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties and may be of businesses in which we lack operational experience. if we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: regulatory or compliance issues that could arise; changes in regulations and laws; the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including litigation risks; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed not being properly estimated; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions. our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by our global operations. our operations in jurisdictions outside of the united states are subject to various risks inherent in global operations. we currently have operations in over 50 countries worldwide. we may conduct business in additional foreign jurisdictions in the future, which may carry operational risks in addition to the risks of acquisition described above. at any particular time, our global operations may be affected by local changes in laws, regulations, and the political and economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility, and competition. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. we are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), u.s. export control and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. the fcpa generally 14 table of contents prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. if we are found to have violated the fcpa, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with government agencies or receive export licenses. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the united states and other countries where we do business. deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. negative trends in the general economy, including interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions, may also affect our customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms and reduce discretionary spending on health products. reduced purchases by our customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. if the economic conditions in the united states or in the countries where we do business do not improve or deteriorate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial market volatility and disruption. if the capital and credit markets experience significant disruption and volatility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access credit. although we believe that our operating cash flow and existing credit arrangements give us the ability to meet our financing needs, there can be no assurance that disruption and volatility will not increase our costs of borrowing, impair our liquidity, or adversely impact our business. our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant supplier. our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers, including generic pharmaceutical manufacturers, give rise to substantial amounts that are due to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods, chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our suppliers. the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a significant customer. most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. credit is made available to customers based on our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness. although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes, including changes in reimbursement, may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our customers. the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue and results of operations. at september 30, 2016 , our two largest trade receivable balances due from customers represented approximately 43% and 10% of accounts receivable, net. 15 table of contents risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations. our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in information systems, and third party service providers are also responsible for managing a significant portion of our information systems. to the extent our information systems are not successfully implemented or fail, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. our business and results of operations may also be adversely affected if a third party service provider does not perform satisfactorily, or if the information systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events, including due to the actions of third parties. information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information or personal data, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. as a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. risks generally associated with data privacy regulation and the international transfer of personal data. we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations both in the united states and beyond that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between or among countries. many of these foreign data privacy regulations are more stringent than those in the united states. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties. that or other circumstances related to our collection, use and transfer of personal data could cause a loss of reputation in the market and/or adversely affect our business and financial position. tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are a large corporation with operations in the united states and select global markets. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments and of various foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives, such as the repeal of last-in, first-out ("lifo"), treatment, may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. we believe that our historical tax positions are consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and existing precedent. in addition, united states federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. our goodwill or intangible assets may become impaired, which would require us to record a significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap") require us to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. indicators that are considered include significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results, significant negative industry or economic trends or a significant decline in the company's stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. in addition, we periodically review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates, the loss of a significant customer, or divestiture of a business or asset for below its carrying value. the testing required by gaap involves estimates and judgments by management. although we believe our assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate, any changes in key assumptions, including a failure to meet business plans or other unanticipated events and circumstances such as a rise in interest rates, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. any such charge could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 16 table of contents natural disasters or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be covered by insurance. the occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather in the u.s. or in other countries in which we operate or are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. natural disasters, power outages or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of distribution centers or outsourcing facilities, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products, delay in the delivery of products to our distribution centers and/or disruption of our ability to deliver products to customers. existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for the costs that may arise from such events, particularly if such events are catastrophic in nature or occur in combination. any long-term disruption in our ability to service our customers from one or more distribution centers or outsourcing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations.