risk factors on page 8). the company we serve our customers (healthcare providers and pharmaceutical and biotech manufacturers) through a geographically diverse network of distribution service centers and other operations in the united states and select global markets. in our pharmaceutical distribution business, we are typically the primary supplier of pharmaceutical and related products to our healthcare provider customers. we offer a broad range of services to our customers designed to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of their operations, which allow them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and to lower overall costs in the pharmaceutical supply channel. strategy our business strategy is focused on the global pharmaceutical supply channel where we provide value-added distribution and global commercialization services to healthcare providers (primarily pharmacies, health systems, medical and dialysis clinics, physicians, and veterinarians) and pharmaceutical manufacturers that increase channel efficiencies and improve patient outcomes. implementing this disciplined, focused strategy in a seamless and unified way has allowed us to significantly expand our business, and we believe we are well-positioned to grow revenue and increase operating income through the execution of the following key elements of our business strategy: optimize and grow our pharmaceutical distribution and strategic global sourcing businesses. we believe we are well-positioned in size and market breadth to continue to grow our distribution businesses as we invest to improve our operating and capital efficiencies. distribution, including specialty pharmaceuticals, anchors our growth and position in the pharmaceutical supply channel as we provide superior distribution services and deliver value-added solutions, which improve the efficiency and competitiveness of both healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers, thus allowing the pharmaceutical supply channel to better deliver healthcare to patients. we are a leader in distribution and services to community oncologists and have leading positions in other physician-administered products. we distribute plasma and other blood products, injectable pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty products. we are well positioned to service and support many of the new biotechnology therapies that are expected to be coming to market in the near future. with the continued growth of generic pharmaceuticals in the u.s. market, we have introduced strategies to enhance our position in the generic marketplace, including our generic product private label program based in ireland. we source generics globally, offer a value-added generic formulary program to our healthcare provider customers, and monitor our customers' compliance with our generics program. we also provide data and other valuable services to our manufacturer customers, which includes our international presence in switzerland where we lead our global manufacturer relations and commercialization strategy. we offer value-added services and solutions to assist healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers to improve their efficiency and their patient outcomes. services for manufacturers include: assistance with rapid new product launches, promotional and marketing services to accelerate product sales, product data reporting, and logistical support. our provider solutions include: our good neighbor pharmacy program, which enables independent community pharmacies to compete more effectively through pharmaceutical benefit and merchandising programs; elevate provider network , our managed care network, which connects our retail pharmacy customers to payor plans throughout the country and is one of the largest in the united states; generic product purchasing and private label services; hospital pharmacy consulting designed to improve operational efficiencies; and packaging solutions for institutional and retail healthcare providers. we believe we have one of the lowest cost operating structures among all pharmaceutical distributors. our robust distribution facility network includes a national distribution center in columbus, oh, which offers pharmaceutical 2 table of contents manufacturers a single shipping destination. we continue to seek opportunities to achieve increased productivity and operating income gains as we invest in and continue to implement warehouse automation technology, adopt "best practices" in warehousing activities, and increase operating leverage by increasing volume per full-service distribution facility. we continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in our pharmaceutical distribution and strategic global sourcing businesses. optimize and grow our global commercialization services and animal health businesses. our consulting service businesses help global pharmaceutical and biotechnology manufacturers commercialize their products. we believe we are the largest provider of reimbursement services that assist pharmaceutical companies in supporting access to branded drugs. we also provide outcomes research, contract field staffing, patient assistance and copay assistance programs, adherence programs, risk mitigation services, and other market access programs to pharmaceutical companies. world courier is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. world courier further strengthens our service offerings to global pharmaceutical manufacturers and provides an established platform for the introduction of our specialty services outside north america. mwi animal health ( mwi ) sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. mwi also offers its customers a variety of value-added services, including its e-commerce platform, technology management systems, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory management system, equipment procurement consultation, special order fulfillment, and educational seminars, which we believe closely integrate mwi with its customers' day-to-day operations and provide them with meaningful incentives to continue doing business with mwi. we continue to seek opportunities to expand our offerings in our global commercialization services and animal health businesses. acquisitions. in order to grow our core strategic offerings and to enter related markets, we have acquired and invested in businesses and will continue to consider additional acquisitions and investments. in fiscal 2018, we acquired northeast veterinary supply company ("nevsco"). nevsco was an independent, regional distributor of veterinary pharmaceuticals and medical supplies serving primarily the northeast region of the united states and is expected to strengthen mwi's support of independent veterinary practices and provide even greater value and care to current and future animal health customers. in fiscal 2018, we acquired h.d. smith holding company ("h.d. smith"). h.d. smith was the largest independent pharmaceutical wholesaler in the united states and provides full-line distribution of brand, generic, and specialty drugs, as well as high-value services and solutions for manufacturers and healthcare providers. h.d. smith's customers include retail pharmacies, specialty pharmacies, long-term care facilities, institutional/hospital systems, and independent physicians and clinics. in fiscal 2018, we made additional investments in profarma distribuidora de produtos farmaceuticos s.a. ("profarma"), a leading pharmaceutical wholesaler in brazil, and a joint venture with profarma to provide specialty distribution and services in the brazilian marketplace. divestitures. in order to allow us to concentrate on our strategic focus areas, we have divested certain non-core businesses and may, from time to time, consider additional divestitures. operations operating structure. we are organized based upon the products and services we provide to our customers. our operations as of september 30, 2018 are comprised of the pharmaceutical distribution services reportable segment and other operating segments that are not significant enough to require separate reportable segment disclosure, and, therefore, have been included in other for the purpose of reportable segment presentation. pharmaceutical distribution services segment servicing healthcare providers in the pharmaceutical supply channel, the pharmaceutical distribution services segment's operations provide drug distribution, strategic global sourcing, and related services designed to reduce healthcare costs and improve patient outcomes. the pharmaceutical distribution services reportable segment distributes a comprehensive offering of brand-name, specialty brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals, over-the-counter healthcare products, home healthcare supplies and equipment, outsourced compounded sterile preparations, and related services to a wide variety of healthcare providers, including acute care hospitals and health systems, independent and chain retail pharmacies, mail order pharmacies, medical clinics, long-term care and 3 table of contents alternate site pharmacies, and other customers. through a number of operating businesses, the pharmaceutical distribution services reportable segment provides pharmaceutical distribution (including plasma and other blood products, injectible pharmaceuticals, vaccines, and other specialty pharmaceutical products) and additional services to physicians who specialize in a variety of disease states, especially oncology, and to other healthcare providers, including hospitals and dialysis clinics. additionally, the pharmaceutical distribution services reportable segment provides data analytics, outcomes research, and additional services for biotechnology and pharmaceutical manufacturers. the pharmaceutical distribution services reportable segment also provides pharmacy management, staffing and additional consulting services, and supply management software to a variety of retail and institutional healthcare providers. additionally, it delivers packaging solutions to institutional and retail healthcare providers. other other consists of operating segments that focus on global commercialization services and animal health and includes amerisourcebergen consulting services ("abcs"), world courier, and mwi. abcs, through a number of operating businesses, provides a full suite of integrated manufacturer services that range from clinical trial support to product post-approval and commercialization support. world courier, which operates in more than 50 countries, is a leading global specialty transportation and logistics provider for the biopharmaceutical industry. mwi is a leading animal health distribution company in the united states and in the united kingdom. mwi sells pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, micro feed ingredients, and various other products to customers in both the companion animal and production animal markets. additionally, mwi offers demand-creating sales force services to manufacturers. sales and marketing. the majority of pharmaceutical distribution services' sales force is led nationally, with geographic focus and specialized by either healthcare provider type or size. customer service representatives are centralized in order to respond to customer needs in a timely and effective manner. pharmaceutical distribution services also has support professionals focused on its various technologies and service offerings. pharmaceutical distribution services' sales teams also serve national account customers through close coordination with local distribution centers and ensure that our customers are receiving service offerings that meet their needs. our other operating segments each have independent sales forces that specialize in their respective product and service offerings. in addition, we have an enterprise-wide marketing group that coordinates branding and all other marketing activities across the company. customers. we have a diverse customer base that includes institutional and retail healthcare providers as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. institutional healthcare providers include acute care hospitals, health systems, mail order pharmacies, long-term care and other alternate care pharmacies, and providers of pharmacy services to such facilities, physicians, and physician group practices. retail healthcare providers include national and regional retail drugstore chains, independent community pharmacies, pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, and veterinarians. we are typically the primary source of supply for our healthcare provider customers. our manufacturer customers include branded, generic, and biotechnology manufacturers of prescription pharmaceuticals, as well as over-the-counter product and health and beauty aid manufacturers. in addition, we offer a broad range of value-added solutions designed to enhance the operating efficiencies and competitive positions of our customers, thereby allowing them to improve the delivery of healthcare to patients and consumers. our two largest customers, walgreens boots alliance, inc. ("wba") and express scripts, inc. ("express scripts"), accounted for approximately 33% and approximately 13% , respectively, of revenue in the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 . our top 10 customers, including governmental agencies and group purchasing organizations ("gpo"), represented approximately 68% of revenue in the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 . the loss of any major customer or gpo relationship could adversely affect future revenue and results of operations. if those contracts are not renewed or are renewed at less favorable terms, they may negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. suppliers. we obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which accounted for 10% or more of our purchases in the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 . the loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable since we are committed to be the primary source of pharmaceutical products for a majority of our customers. we believe that our relationships with our suppliers are strong. the 10 largest suppliers in fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 accounted for approximately 46% of our purchases. information systems. the pharmaceutical distribution services operating segment operates its full-service wholesale pharmaceutical distribution facilities in the united states on two primary enterprise resource planning ("erp") systems. pharmaceutical distribution services' erp systems provide for, among other things, electronic order entry by customers, invoice preparation and purchasing, and inventory tracking. all of our other operating segments operate the majority of their businesses on their own common erp systems resulting in the ability to rapidly deploy new capabilities. we are currently making significant investments to enhance and upgrade the erp systems utilized by our other operating segments. 4 table of contents additionally, we are improving our entity-wide infrastructure environment to drive efficiency, capabilities, and speed to market. we will continue to invest in advanced information systems and automated warehouse technology. for example, in an effort to comply with future pedigree and other supply chain custody requirements (see risk factor - increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability) , we expect to continue to make significant investments in our secure supply chain information systems. pharmaceutical distribution services has made significant investments in its electronic ordering systems. pharmaceutical distribution services' systems are intended to strengthen customer relationships by helping customers to reduce operating costs and by providing a platform for a number of the basic and value-added services offered to our customers, including product demand data, inventory replenishment, single-source billing, third-party claims processing, real-time price and incentive updates, and price labels. pharmaceutical distribution services processes a substantial portion of its purchase orders, invoices, and payments electronically, and it continues to make substantial investments to expand its electronic interface with its suppliers. pharmaceutical distribution services has warehouse operating systems, which are used to manage the majority of pharmaceutical distribution services' transactional volume. the warehouse operating systems have improved pharmaceutical distribution services' productivity and operating leverage. a significant portion of our data center operations is outsourced to third-party service providers. competition we face a highly competitive global environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. our largest competitors are mckesson corporation ("mckesson"), cardinal health, inc. ("cardinal"), fff enterprises, henry schein, inc., and ups logistics, among others. pharmaceutical distribution services competes with both mckesson and cardinal, as well as national generic distributors and regional distributors within pharmaceutical distribution. in addition, we compete with manufacturers who sell directly to customers, chain drugstores who manage their own warehousing, specialty distributors, and packaging and healthcare technology companies. our abcs, world courier, and mwi businesses also face competition from a variety of businesses. in all areas, competitive factors include price, product offerings, value-added service programs, service and delivery, credit terms, and customer support. intellectual property we use a number of trademarks and service marks. all of the principal trademarks and service marks used in the course of our business have been registered in the united states and, in some cases, in foreign jurisdictions or are the subject of pending applications for registration. we have developed or acquired various proprietary products, processes, software, and other intellectual property that are used either to facilitate the conduct of our business or that are made available as products or services to customers. we generally seek to protect such intellectual property through a combination of trade secret, patent and copyright laws, and through confidentiality and other contractually imposed protections. we hold patents and have patent applications pending that relate to certain of our products, particularly our automated pharmacy dispensing equipment, our medication and supply dispensing equipment, certain warehousing equipment, and some of our proprietary packaging solutions. we seek patent protection for our proprietary intellectual property from time to time as appropriate. although we believe that our patents or other proprietary products and processes do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of any third parties, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time. employees as of september 30, 2018 , we had approximately 21,000 employees, of which approximately 20,000 were full-time employees. approximately 2% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. if any of our employees in locations that are unionized should engage in strikes or other such bargaining tactics in connection with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements upon the expiration of any existing collective bargaining agreements, such tactics could be disruptive to our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. however, we believe we have adequate contingency plans in place to assure delivery of pharmaceuticals to our customers in the event of any such disruptions. 5 table of contents government regulation we are subject to extensive oversight by various federal and state governmental entities and we are subject to, and affected by, a variety of federal and state laws, regulations, and policies. the u.s. drug enforcement administration ("dea"), the u.s. food and drug administration ("fda"), the u.s. department of justice ("doj"), and various other federal and state authorities regulate the compounding, purchase, storage, and/or distribution of pharmaceutical products, including controlled substances. wholesale distributors of controlled substances and entities that compound pharmaceuticals that contain controlled substances must hold valid dea licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with regulations governing the sale, marketing, compounding, packaging, holding, and distribution of controlled substances. our section 503b outsourcing facilities must comply with current good manufacturing practices ("gmps") and are inspected by the fda periodically to determine that we are complying with such gmps. dea, fda, doj, and state authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to suspend our distribution centers or section 503b outsourcing facilities from distributing pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), seize or recall products, and impose significant criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions. we continue to be in active communication with the fda and the consumer protection branch of the civil division of the doj regarding the ongoing compliance efforts of our subsidiary pharmedium, including efforts to resume commercial distribution at the memphis, tennessee 503b outsourcing facility where we voluntarily suspended production activities in december 2017. representatives of the company and pharmedium have had an initial meeting with doj and fda to discuss potential resolution of ongoing matters and whether a consent decree is necessary (see item 1a. risk factors on page 8). further discussions are anticipated, including with regard to the possible entry of a consent decree. we and our customers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, including the federal anti-kickback statute and false claims act. the anti-kickback statute prohibits persons from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in order to induce the purchasing, leasing, or ordering, induce a referral to purchase, lease, or order, or arrange for or recommend purchasing, leasing, or ordering items or services that are in any way paid for by medicare, medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. the false claims act prohibits knowingly submitting, or causing the submission, of false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government, and authorizes treble damages and substantial civil penalties in the case of violations. the fraud and abuse laws and regulations are broad in scope and are subject to frequent and varied interpretation. in recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety of the pharmaceutical supply channel. these laws and regulations are designed to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated, or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. at the federal level, the supply chain security legislation known as the drug quality and security act ( dqsa ) became law in 2013. the dqsa establishes federal traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and will eventually require all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system. the dqsa also establishes new requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third-party logistics providers, including licensing requirements applicable in states that had not previously licensed third-party logistics providers. we expect that the fda, and eventually comparable state agencies, will promulgate implementing regulations governing wholesale distributor and third-party logistics providers. in addition, the dqsa created 503b outsourcing facilities as a new category for providers of compounded sterile preparations ("csps"), allowing such facilities to voluntarily register with the fda. our csp business locations have registered with the fda as section 503b outsourcing facilities and have implemented policies and procedures to achieve compliance with current federal and state requirements for such facilities. there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the new dqsa requirements, or with additional related state regulatory and licensing requirements, and any failure to comply may result in suspension or delay of certain operations and additional costs to bring our operations into compliance. these and other requirements will continue to increase the cost of our operations. federal insurance and health care reform legislation known as the affordable care act (the "aca") became law in 2010. the aca is intended to expand health insurance, including coverage for at least a portion of drug costs, through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of medicaid, subsidies, and health insurance mandates. the aca contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and reduce the costs of medicare and medicaid. among other things, the aca changed the formula for medicaid federal upper payment limits for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis to no less than 175% of the weighted average manufacturer price. further, implementing regulations require state medicaid programs to apply payment mechanisms for branded prescription drugs which are consistent with pharmacies' "actual acquisition costs" for drugs. these provisions could reduce prescription drug reimbursement levels under state medicaid programs. as a result of political, economic, and regulatory influences, scrutiny of the healthcare delivery system in the united states can be expected to continue at both the state and federal levels. this process may result in additional legislation and/or regulation governing the production, delivery, or pricing of pharmaceutical products, as well as additional changes to the structure of the present healthcare delivery system. in addition, changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant 6 table of contents additional compliance costs or the discontinuation of our ability to continue to operate our distribution centers or section 503b outsourcing facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. any future reductions in medicare or medicaid reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase drugs from us. we cannot predict what additional initiatives, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. we are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, as well as laws relating to safe working conditions and laboratory practices. the costs, burdens, and/or impacts of complying with federal and state regulations could be significant and the failure to comply with any such legal requirements could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition. see "risk factors" beginning on page 8 for a discussion of additional legal and regulatory developments, as well as enforcement actions or other litigation that may arise out of our failure to adequately comply with applicable laws and regulations that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. health information and privacy practices the health information portability and accountability act of 1996 ("hipaa") and its implementing regulations set forth privacy and security standards designed to protect the privacy of and provide for the security of protected health information, as defined under the hipaa regulations. some of our businesses collect, maintain, and/or access protected health information and are subject to the hipaa regulations. our operations, depending on their location, may also be subject to state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and the manner in which information services or products are provided. significant criminal and civil penalties may be imposed for violation of hipaa standards and other such laws. we have a hipaa compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with the hipaa regulations. the health information technology for economic and clinical health act ("hitech act"), enacted as part of the 2009 american recovery and reinvestment act ("arra"), strengthened federal privacy and security provisions governing protected health information. among other things, the hitech act expanded certain aspects of the hipaa privacy and security rules, imposed new notification requirements related to health data security breaches, broadened the rights of the u.s. department of health and human services ("hhs") to enforce hipaa, and directed hhs to publish more specific security standards. on january 25, 2013, the office for civil rights of hhs published the hipaa omnibus final rule ("hipaa final rule"), which amended certain aspects of the hipaa privacy, security, and enforcement rules pursuant to the hitech act, extending certain hipaa obligations to business associates and their subcontractors. certain components of our business act as "business associates" within the meaning of hipaa and are subject to these additional obligations under the hipaa final rule. some of our businesses collect, maintain, and/or access other personal information (including sensitive personal information) that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information, in addition to the requirements of hipaa, the hitech act, and the implementing regulations. personally identifiable information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate. as such regulations continue to evolve, we need to comply with applicable privacy and security requirements of these countries, including but not limited to those in the european union. most notably certain aspects of our business are subject to the european union's general data protection regulation ("gdpr") which became effective on may 25, 2018. we have a gdpr compliance program to facilitate our ongoing efforts to comply with gdpr regulations. there can be no assurances that compliance with these requirements will not impose new costs on our business. available information for more information about us, visit our website at www.amerisourcebergen.com . the contents of the website are not part of this form 10-k. our electronic filings with the securities and exchange commission (including all forms 10-k, 10-q, and 8-k, and any amendments to these reports) are available free of charge through our website at investor.amerisourcebergen.com immediately after we electronically file with or furnish them to the securities and exchange commission and may also be viewed using their website at www.sec.gov . 7 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following discussion describes certain risk factors that we believe could affect our business and prospects. these risk factors are in addition to those set forth elsewhere in this report. our results of operations could be adversely impacted by manufacturer pricing changes and fewer generic pharmaceutical launches. in fiscal 2018, we continued to experience an unfavorable brand and generic pharmaceutical pricing environment, which negatively impacted our pharmaceutical distribution services reportable segment profit and our consolidated operating earnings. we expect this to continue in fiscal 2019, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. our contractual arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers for the purchase of brand pharmaceutical products generally use wholesale acquisition cost ("wac") as the reference price. similarly, we sell brand pharmaceutical products to many of our customers using wac as the reference price. in may 2018, the trump administration announced a wide-ranging "blueprint" to address concerns over drug pricing which listed, among other things, potential mechanisms to encourage manufacturers to limit increases in or to reduce the wac of individual products. although the blueprint did not create legal or regulatory mandates, and no specific mandates have been passed or proposed thus far, some manufacturers announced price freezes or delays in wac increases in the ensuing months. if the government enacts proposals to directly or indirectly regulate wac list prices, or if manufacturers change their pricing policies or practices with regard to wac, and we are unable to negotiate alternative ways to be compensated by manufacturers or customers for the value of our services, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the pharmaceutical products that we purchase are also subject to price inflation and deflation. additionally, certain distribution service agreements that we have entered into with brand and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have a price appreciation component to them. as a result, our gross profit from brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals continues to be subject to fluctuation based upon the timing and extent of manufacturer price increases, which we do not control. if the frequency or rate of brand and generic pharmaceutical price increases slows, whether due to regulatory mandates, the implementation of any of the policy proposals noted in the blueprint, or voluntary manufacturer actions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, generic pharmaceuticals are also subject to price deflation. if the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, the negative impact on our results of operations will be greater. a decline in the number of generic pharmaceutical launches, or launches that are less profitable than those in the past, could also adversely impact our results of operations. competition and industry consolidation may erode our profit. as described in greater detail in the "competition" section beginning on page 5, the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. in addition, in recent years the healthcare industry has been subject to increasing consolidation, including among pharmaceutical manufacturers, retail pharmacies, and health insurers, which may create further competitive pressures on our pharmaceutical distribution business. if we do not compete successfully, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the impact on us will be greater if consolidation among our customers, suppliers, and competitors gives the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which could lead to greater pressure on us to reduce prices for our products and services. increasing governmental efforts to regulate the pharmaceutical supply channel and pharmaceutical compounding may increase our costs and reduce our profitability. the healthcare industry in the united states is highly regulated at the federal and state levels. there have been increasing efforts by congress and state and federal agencies, including state boards of pharmacy, departments of health, and the fda, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system and pharmacy compounding activities. regulation of pharmaceutical distribution is intended to prevent diversion and the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated, and/or mislabeled drugs into the pharmaceutical distribution system. consequently, we are subject to the risk of changes in various federal and state laws, which include operating and security standards of the dea, the fda, various state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies. in recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the safety and security of the supply channel but that also may substantially increase the costs and burden of pharmaceutical distribution and pharmaceutical compounding. at the federal level, the dqsa establishes federal traceability standards requiring drugs to be labeled and tracked at the lot level, preempts state drug pedigree requirements, and will eventually require all supply-chain stakeholders to participate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system. the dqsa also established requirements for drug wholesale distributors and third-party logistics providers, including licensing requirements applicable in states that had not previously licensed third-party logistics providers. in addition, the dqsa established 503b outsourcing facilities as a category for providers of csps, 8 table of contents allowing such facilities to voluntarily register with the fda. our csp business locations have registered with the fda as 503b outsourcing facilities and have implemented policies and procedures to achieve compliance with current federal and state requirements for such facilities. there can be no assurance that we are fully compliant with the new dqsa requirements, or with additional related state regulatory and licensing requirements, and any failure to comply may result in suspension or delay of certain operations and additional costs to bring our facilities into compliance. moreover, we expect that the fda will continue to issue draft and final guidance and to promulgate regulations in its efforts to implement the requirements in the dqsa, including those relating to current good manufacturing practices ("gmps") and other matters related to 503b outsourcing facilities, which may require changes to our business, some of which may be significant. complying with these and other chain of custody and pharmaceutical distribution and compounding requirements could result in suspension or delays in our production and distribution activities which may increase our costs and could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. legal, regulatory and legislative changes with respect to reimbursement, pricing, and contracting may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including through declining reimbursement rates. both our business and our customers' businesses may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services, changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined, or regulating pricing, contracting, and discounting practices with respect to medical products and services. additionally, on occasion, price increases and pricing practices with respect to certain brand and generic pharmaceuticals have been the subject of u.s. congressional inquiries. any law or regulation impacting pharmaceutical pricing, including as a result of pricing controls or legislative efforts at the federal or state level, could adversely affect our operations. federal insurance and healthcare reform legislation known as the affordable care act ("aca") became law in march 2010, and included numerous reforms affecting reimbursement, pricing, and contracting for prescription drugs. given the scope of the changes made by the aca and continuing implementation controversies, we cannot predict the impact of every aspect of the law on our operations. likewise, we cannot predict the impact of any efforts to change or repeal any provisions of the aca. the aca changed the formula for medicaid federal upper payment limits ("fuls") for multiple source drugs available for purchase by retail community pharmacies on a nationwide basis. the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ("cms") calculate fuls for multiple source drugs as 175% of the weighted average of average manufacturer price ("amp"), with certain exceptions. in addition, cms regulations require state medicaid programs to implement payment methods for brand (non-multiple source) products designed to be consistent with the actual acquisition cost of such drugs, effective april 1, 2017. medicaid reimbursement for drugs calculated under the final rule may reflect significant reductions from prior reimbursement levels, although the impact of the changes varies by state medicaid program. any reduction in the medicaid reimbursement rates to our customers may indirectly impact the prices that we can charge our customers for multisource pharmaceuticals and cause corresponding declines in our profitability. the aca also amended the medicaid rebate statute to increase minimum medicaid rebate percentages and made other changes expected to result in increased medicaid rebate payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers, which could indirectly impact our business. in addition, the bipartisan budget act of 2015 extended to generic drugs inflation-based medicaid drug rebates similar to those that are paid by manufacturers on brand drugs. the bipartisan budget act of 2018 subsequently increased the rebate due with respect to line extensions of single source or innovator multiple source oral solid dosage form drugs. the federal government and state governments could take other actions in the future that impact medicaid reimbursement and rebate amounts or the cost of drugs. there can be no assurance that recent or future changes in medicaid prescription drug reimbursement policies will not have an adverse impact on our business. unless we are able to develop plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative and regulatory changes, these changes in reimbursement and related reporting requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 significantly expanded medicare coverage for outpatient prescription drugs through the medicare part d program. the part d program has increased the use of pharmaceuticals in the supply channel, which has had a positive impact on our revenues and profitability. there have been additional legislative and regulatory changes to the part d program since its enactment. on august 29, 2018, cms issued guidance which, beginning in 2020, would provide flexibility for part d plans to implement "indication based" formularies that may restrict coverage of certain drugs for certain indications. there can be no assurances that recent and future changes to the part d program will not have an adverse impact on our business. 9 table of contents our businesses also sell specialty and other drugs to physicians, hospitals, community oncology practices and other providers that are reimbursed under part b of the medicare program. declining reimbursement rates for medicare part b drugs and other economic factors have caused a number of physician practices, including some of our customers, to move from private practice to hospital settings, where they may purchase their specialty drugs under hospital prime vendor arrangements rather than from specialty distributors. although this trend has slowed down in the past several years, it could increase in the future due to various factors, including legislative and regulatory requirements that affect how cms reimburses for medicare part b drugs, as well as the ability of certain hospitals to purchase drugs at significant, statutorily-mandated discounts pursuant to the federal 340b drug discount program for groups of patients. in addition, federal changes in drug reimbursement policy could reduce the rate of reimbursement for drugs covered under medicare part b or physician services under medicare, which could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us, and thereby result in corresponding declines in our profitability. for example, on september 20, 2017, cms issued a request for information seeking recommendations for payment models, which could include prescription drug models under medicare parts b and d and state medicaid programs. additionally, cms published a final rule on november 13, 2017 that reduces medicare outpatient hospital reimbursement for separately payable drugs (other than vaccines) purchased through the 340b drug pricing program from average sales price ("asp") plus 6% to asp minus 22.5% (with certain exceptions), effective january 1, 2018. on july 27, 2018, cms published a proposed rule that would reduce from 6% to 3% the add-on payment for new, separately-payable part b drugs and biologicals that are paid based on wac when asp data during first quarter of sales is unavailable. cms also included in its proposed 2019 hospital outpatient prospective system proposed rule, published july 31, 2018, a request for comments on a potential innovation model that would allow healthcare providers to acquire part b drugs through value-based agreements with manufacturers administered by private-sector vendors. finally, on august 7, 2018, cms advised medicare advantage plans that they may implement prior authorization step therapy or similar utilization controls with respect to part b drugs. the federal government may adopt measures in the future that would further reduce medicare and/or medicaid spending or impose additional requirements on healthcare entities. for instance, under the "sequestration" provision of the budget control act of 2011 (as amended), a 2% cut is being made to medicare provider and plan payments, generally effective for services provided on or after april 1, 2013. any future reductions in medicare reimbursement rates could negatively impact our customers' businesses and their ability to continue to purchase such drugs from us. at this time, we can provide no assurances that future medicare and/or medicaid payment or policy changes, if adopted, would not have an adverse effect on our business. finally, federal and state governments may adopt policies affecting drug pricing and contracting practices outside of the context of federal programs such as medicare and medicaid, which may adversely affect our business. for example, several states have adopted laws that require drug manufacturers to provide advance notice of certain price increase and to report information relating to those price increases. on may 11, 2018 the department of health and human services requested comments on a "blueprint to lower drug prices and reduce out-of-pocket costs," which outlines a wide range of proposals and policy considerations intended to improve competition; lower patient out-of-pocket costs; enhance negotiation; and provide incentives for lower manufacturer list prices. some of the proposals would require congressional approval, and others could be adopted administratively. there can be no assurances that future changes to medicare and/or medicaid prescription drug reimbursement policies, drug pricing and contracting practices, or government drug price regulation programs such as the medicaid rebate or 340b program will not have an adverse impact on our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud and abuse, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. the federal government continues to strengthen its scrutiny of practices potentially involving healthcare fraud affecting medicare, medicaid and other government healthcare programs. our relationships with healthcare providers and pharmaceutical manufacturers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by medicare, medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under medicare and medicaid programs. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse, and these enforcement authorities were further expanded by the aca. while we believe that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to marketing incentives offered in connection with pharmaceutical sales, are vague or indefinite, and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in medicare, medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs. 10 table of contents public concern over the abuse of opioid medications, including increased legal and regulatory action, could negatively affect our business. certain governmental and regulatory agencies, as well as state and local jurisdictions, are focused on the abuse of opioid medications in the united states. federal, state and local governmental and regulatory agencies are conducting investigations of us and others in the supply chain, including pharmaceutical manufacturers and other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, regarding the distribution of opioid medications. in addition, a significant number of lawsuits have been filed against us, other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, and others in the supply chain. the lawsuits against us and other pharmaceutical wholesale distributors allege, among other claims, that we failed to provide effective controls and procedures to guard against the diversion of controlled substances, acted negligently by distributing controlled substances to pharmacies that serve individuals who abuse controlled substances, and failed to report suspicious orders of controlled substances in accordance with regulations. additional governmental and regulatory entities have indicated an intent to sue and may conduct investigations of us in the future. we are deeply committed to diversion control efforts, have sophisticated systems in place to identify orders placed warranting further review to determine if they are suspicious (including through the use of data analytics), and engage in significant due diligence and ongoing monitoring of customers. while we are vigorously defending ourselves in these lawsuits, the allegations may negatively affect our business in various ways, including through increased costs and harm to our reputation. since these matters are at an early stage, we are unable to predict the outcome. the adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits or investigations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. legislative, regulatory or industry measures to address the misuse of prescription opioid medications may also affect our business in ways that we are not be able to predict. for example, in april 2018, the state of new york enacted the opioid stewardship act ( osa ), which went into effect on july 1, 2018 and established an aggregate $100 million annual assessment on all entities that sell or distribute opioid medications in new york. in addition, other states are considering legislation that could require entities to pay an assessment or tax on the sale or distribution of opioid medications in those states and may vary in the assessment or tax amounts and the means of calculation from the osa. if other state or local jurisdictions enact legislation similar to the osa and we are not able to mitigate the impact on our business through operational changes or commercial arrangements, such legislation in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. our business, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected by legal proceedings. we conduct our operations through a variety of businesses, including the distribution of pharmaceuticals, the dispensing of healthcare products and the provision of services to the pharmaceutical industry. each of our businesses may cause us to become involved in legal disputes or proceedings involving healthcare fraud and abuse, the false claims act, antitrust, class action, commercial, employment, environmental, intellectual property, licensing, and various other claims, including claims related to opioid medications as discussed in the above risk factor. litigation is costly, time-consuming and disruptive to ordinary business operations. the defense and resolutions of these current and future proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. violations of various federal and state laws, including with respect to the marketing, sale, purchase, and dispensing of pharmaceutical products and the provision of services to the pharmaceutical industry, can result in criminal, civil, and administrative liability for which there can be significant financial damages, criminal and civil penalties, and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health programs. any settlement, judgment or fine could adversely affect our results of operations. statutory and/or regulatory violations could also form the basis for qui tam complaints. the qui tam provisions of the federal and various state civil false claims acts authorize a private person, known as a relator, to file civil actions under these statutes on behalf of the federal and state governments. under false claims acts, the filing of a qui tam complaint by a relator imposes obligations on government authorities to investigate the allegations and determine whether or not to intervene in the action. such cases may involve allegations around the marketing, sale, purchase, and/or dispensing of brand and/or generic pharmaceutical products or the provision of services to the pharmaceutical industry. such complaints are filed under seal and remain sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if qui tam complaints are filed against us for alleged violations of any health laws and regulations and damages arising from resultant false claims, if the litigation proceeds whether or not government authorities decide to intervene in any such matters, and/or if we are found liable for all or any portion of violations alleged in any such matters. in fiscal 2018, we resolved potential civil claims and administrative action by entering into, among other things, a corporate integrity agreement (see note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). the corporate integrity agreement has a five-year term. failure to comply with obligations under the corporate integrity agreement could lead to monetary or other penalties. 11 table of contents our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows may suffer upon the loss, or renewal at less favorable terms, of a significant customer or group purchasing organization. wba accounted for approximately 33% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 . express scripts accounted for approximately 13% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 . our top ten customers, including governmental agencies and gpos, represented approximately 68% of revenue in the fiscal year ended september 30, 2018 . we may lose a significant customer or gpo relationship if any existing contract with such customer or gpo expires without being extended, renewed, renegotiated or replaced or is terminated by the customer or gpo prior to expiration, to the extent such early termination is permitted by the contract. a number of our contracts with significant customers or gpos are typically subject to expiration each year and we may lose any of these customers or gpo relationships if we are unable to extend, renew, renegotiate or replace the contracts. the loss of any significant customer or gpo relationship could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. additionally, from time to time, significant contracts may be renewed prior to their expiration date. if those contracts are renewed at less favorable terms, they may also negatively impact our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. the anticipated ongoing strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with wba may not be realized. in may 2016, we extended to 2026 our strategic arrangement with wba - specifically, our distribution agreement under which we distribute drugs to walgreens pharmacies and our generics purchasing services arrangement under which walgreens boots alliance development gmbh ("wbad") provides a variety of services, including negotiating acquisition pricing with generic manufacturers on our behalf. this reflected our expectation that partnering strategically with wba would result in various benefits including, among other things, continued cost savings as a result of our generics purchasing services arrangement with wbad, as well as the potential for exploring innovation together and sharing best practices. the processes and initiatives needed to achieve and maintain these benefits are complex, costly and time-consuming. achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement on an ongoing basis is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including: the potential inability to realize and/or delays in realizing potential benefits resulting from participation in our generics purchasing services arrangement with wbad, including improved generic drug pricing and terms, improved service fees from generic manufacturers, cost savings, innovations, or other benefits due to its inability to negotiate successfully with generic manufacturers or otherwise to perform as expected; the potential disruption of our plans and operations as a result of the terms under which we extended the duration of the distribution agreement and generics purchasing services agreement, including any disruption of our cash flow and ability to return value to our stockholders in accordance with our past practices and any reduction in our operational, strategic or financial flexibility; potential changes in supplier relationships and terms; unexpected or unforeseen costs, fees, expenses and charges incurred by us related to the transaction or the overall strategic relationship; unforeseen changes in the economic terms under which we distribute pharmaceuticals to wba; and any potential issues that could impede our ability to continue to work collaboratively with wba in an efficient and effective manner in furtherance of the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of the relationship. in addition, wba has the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the framework and shareholder agreements dated march 18, 2013 to make certain additional investments in our common stock. wba also has the right to sell any of the shares of our common stock that it has acquired so long as wba has held the shares beyond the requisite dates specified in the shareholder agreement. any sales in the public market of common stock currently held by wba or acquired by wba pursuant to open market purchases could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. we could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances, or issues with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate pursuing with wba. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased benefits and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected future benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a disruption in our distribution or generic purchasing services arrangements with wba could adversely affect our business and financial results. we are the primary distributor of pharmaceutical products for wba. our generic pharmaceutical program has also benefited from the generics purchasing services arrangement with wba. if the operations of wba are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether by natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory or governmental action, or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business and our sales and profitability. if the generics purchasing services arrangement does not continue to be successful, our margins and results of operations could also be adversely affected. if our operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, we may have an obligation to pay or credit wba for failure to supply products. in addition, upon the expiration or termination of the distribution agreement or generics purchasing services arrangement, there can be no assurance that we or wba will be willing to renew, on terms favorable to us or at all. 12 table of contents in addition, our business may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that wba experiences, including any disruptions of certain of its existing distribution facilities or retail pharmacies resulting from ongoing inspections by the dea and/or state regulatory agencies and possible revocation of the controlled substance registrations for those facilities and pharmacies. tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are a large corporation with operations in the united states and select global markets. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the u.s. federal, state and local governments, and of various foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives, such as the repeal of last-in, first-out ("lifo") treatment, may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. we believe that our historical tax positions are consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and existing precedent. in addition, u.s. federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the "2017 tax act") was enacted and contains significant changes to u.s. income tax law. the 2017 tax act includes a broad range of tax reform provisions affecting businesses, including lower corporate tax rates, changes in business deductions, and international tax provisions. due to the potential for changes to tax laws and regulations or changes to the interpretation thereof (including regulations and interpretations pertaining to the 2017 tax act), the ambiguity of tax laws and regulations, the subjectivity of factual interpretations, the complexity of our intercompany arrangements, uncertainties regarding the geographic mix of earnings in any particular period, and other factors, material adjustments to our tax estimates may impact our provision for income taxes and our earnings per share, as well as our cash flows, in the period in which any such adjustments would be made. the suspension or revocation by federal or state authorities of any of the registrations that must be in effect for our distribution and 503b outsourcing facilities to purchase, compound, store, and/or distribute pharmaceuticals and controlled substances, the refusal by such authorities to issue a registration to any such facility, or any enforcement action or other litigation that arises out of our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing distribution and 503b outsourcing facilities may adversely affect our reputation, our business and our results of operations. the dea, fda, doj, and various other federal and state authorities regulate the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances and the compounding of pharmaceuticals that contain controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the controlled substances act and its implementing regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, compounding, holding and distribution of controlled substances. government authorities may from time to time investigate whether we are in compliance with various security and operating standards applicable to the distribution of controlled substances including whether we are adequately detecting and preventing the illegal diversion of controlled substances. although we have procedures in place that are intended to ensure compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would conclude that our operations are compliant with applicable laws and regulations. if we were found to be non-compliant with such laws and regulations, federal and state authorities have broad enforcement powers, including (i) the ability to suspend our distribution centers' and 503b outsourcing facilities' licenses to distribute and compound pharmaceutical products (including controlled substances), (ii) seize or recall products, and (iii) impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. specifically, enforcement actions may include the doj filing a civil complaint for a consent decree against our pharmedium subsidiary. we have received, and may in the future receive, requests for information, letters and subpoenas from the dea, fda, various u.s. attorneys' offices of the doj, and/or state attorneys general and state regulatory authorities and agencies related to our distribution of controlled substances and our order monitoring program, which is designed to prevent and detect the illegal diversion of controlled substances, or other matters. we generally respond to subpoenas, requests, letters, and other authority and/or agency correspondence in a thorough and timely manner. these responses require time and effort and can result in considerable costs being incurred by us, such as costs related to addressing the observations listed on fda form 483 reports. such subpoenas, requests and letters can also lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of civil, criminal, or regulatory legal proceedings against us, as well as to settlements and the suspension or revocation of registrations required by our distribution and 503b outsourcing facilities, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. the fda and other governmental entities enforce compliance with applicable current gmp requirements through periodic risk-based inspections. it is common for fda form 483 reports to be provided in connection with inspections of 503b outsourcing facilities, and fda observations may be followed by warning letters or subsequent enforcement actions. prior to our acquisition 13 table of contents of the business, pharmedium received a warning letter from the fda in 2014 following the inspection of pharmedium's mississippi, new jersey, tennessee and texas 503b outsourcing facilities in 2013. the fda reinspected all of these facilities in 2015 and 2016 and issued fda form 483 reports at each of the facilities as well as at pharmedium's headquarters in lake forest, illinois. we cannot be assured that the fda and doj will be satisfied with the sufficiency or timing of pharmedium's corrective actions in response to the fda's form 483 reports, including pharmedium's meeting with the fda on november 18, 2016, and, as such, we cannot predict when or if the fda will consider the agency's observations to be fully resolved. in december 2017, following fda inspections of our 503b outsourcing facilities, we voluntarily suspended production activities at our largest 503b outsourcing facility located in memphis, tennessee. we have not resumed commercial distribution at the memphis facility. through fiscal 2018, our results of operations were adversely impacted by the memphis suspension and our results of operations will continue to be adversely impacted until the memphis facility resumes commercial distribution. we will continue to assess how best to address the remediation needed at the memphis facility and pharmedium's other facilities and the impact of pharmedium on our results of operations. we continue to be in active communication with the fda and the consumer protection branch of the civil division of the doj regarding the ongoing compliance efforts of pharmedium, including efforts to resume commercial distribution at the memphis facility. representatives of the company and pharmedium have had an initial meeting with doj and fda to discuss potential resolution of ongoing matters and whether a consent decree is necessary. further discussions are anticipated, including with regard to the possible entry of a consent decree. separately, we have agreed in several state regulatory matters to consent orders or temporary licensing suspensions regarding certain of our 503b outsourcing facilities. certain other states have requested information concerning the status of operations at some or all of our 503b outsourcing facilities. these state regulatory matters preclude us from commercially distributing into certain states, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. a failure to adequately address observations identified by the fda in form 483 reports or warning letters issued by the fda or observations identified by any other federal and state regulatory authority, including a failure to resolve the observations identified by the fda in the 2014 warning letter and subsequent fda form 483 reports relating to pharmedium's 503b outsourcing facilities, could lead to the suspension of facilities currently in operation, an enforcement action, monetary penalties and/or license revocation, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. the products compounded by our csp business are administered by our customers to patients intravenously, and failures or errors in production, labeling or packaging could contribute to patient harm or death, which may subject us to significant liabilities and reputational harm. the production, labeling, and packaging of csps is inherently risky. our csp business sells csps to acute care hospitals, freestanding hospital outpatient departments, and ambulatory surgery centers, who then administer the csps to patients intravenously or through other injectable routes of administration. there are a number of factors that could result in the injury or death of a patient who receives one of our csps, including quality issues, manufacturing or labeling flaws, improper packaging or unanticipated or improper uses of the products, any of which could result from human or other error. any of these situations could lead to a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, we may voluntarily recall or retrieve products. any recall or retrieval, whether voluntary or requested by the fda or state regulatory authorities, could result in significant costs and negative publicity. negative publicity, including regarding a quality or safety issue, whether accurate or inaccurate, could reduce market acceptance of our products, harm our reputation, decrease demand for our products, result in the loss of customers, lead to product withdrawals, and harm our ability to successfully launch new products and services. these problems could also result in enforcement actions by state and federal authorities or other healthcare self-regulatory bodies, or product liability claims or lawsuits, including those brought by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class or establish multidistrict litigation proceedings. any such action, litigation, recall or reputational harm resulting from patient harm or death caused by csps prepared by a competitor or a hospital pharmacy could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our current or future insurance coverage may prove insufficient to cover any liability claims brought against us. because of the increasing cost of insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we undertake acquisitions or investments of businesses that do not perform as we expect or that are difficult for us to integrate. as part of our strategy we seek to pursue acquisitions of and investments in other companies. at any particular time, we may be in various stages of assessment, discussion, and negotiation with regard to one or more potential acquisitions or investments, not all of which will be consummated. we make public disclosure of pending and completed acquisitions when appropriate and required by applicable securities laws and regulations. 14 table of contents acquisitions involve numerous risks and uncertainties and may be of businesses in which we lack operational experience. if we complete one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: regulatory or compliance issues that could arise; changes in regulations and laws; the failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we have projected in either the near or long term; the assumption of unknown liabilities, including litigation risks; the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed not being properly estimated; the difficulties of imposing adequate financial and operating controls on the acquired companies and their management and the potential liabilities that might arise pending the imposition of adequate controls; the difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies; and the failure to achieve the strategic objectives of these acquisitions. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to manage and complete divestitures. we regularly evaluate our portfolio in order to determine whether an asset or business may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. the impact of a divestiture on our results of operations could also be greater than anticipated. violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws to which we are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. we are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa"), u.s. export control and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. the fcpa generally prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. if we are found to have violated the fcpa, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with government agencies or receive export licenses. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our results of operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected by our global operations. our operations in jurisdictions outside of the united states are subject to various risks inherent in global operations. we currently have operations in over 50 countries. we may conduct business in additional foreign jurisdictions in the future, which may carry operational risks in addition to the risks of acquisition described above. at any particular time, our global operations may be affected by local changes in laws, regulations, and the political and economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility, and competition. changes or uncertainty in u.s. or foreign policy, including any changes or uncertainty with respect to u.s. or international trade policies or tariffs, also can disrupt our global operations, as well as our customers and suppliers, in a particular location and may require us to spend more money to source certain products or materials that we purchase. any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our stock price and our ability to access credit markets may be adversely affected by financial market volatility and disruption. if the capital and credit markets experience significant disruption and volatility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will not experience downward movement in our stock price without regard to our financial condition or results of operations or an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access credit. although we believe that our operating cash flow and existing credit arrangements give us the ability to meet our financing needs, there can be no assurance that disruption and volatility will not increase our costs of borrowing, impair our liquidity, or adversely impact our business. our revenue and results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of a significant customer. most of our customers buy pharmaceuticals and other products and services from us on credit. credit is made available to customers based upon our assessment and analysis of creditworthiness. although we often try to obtain a security interest in assets and other arrangements intended to protect our credit exposure, we generally are either subordinated to the position of the primary lenders to our customers or substantially unsecured. volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes, including changes in reimbursement, may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness 15 table of contents of our customers. the bankruptcy, insolvency, or other credit failure of any customer that has a substantial amount owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue and results of operations. as of september 30, 2018 , our two largest trade receivable balances due from customers represented approximately 49% and 8% of accounts receivable, net. our results of operations may suffer upon the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of a significant supplier. our relationships with pharmaceutical suppliers give rise to substantial amounts that are due to us from the suppliers, including amounts owed to us for returned goods or defective goods, chargebacks, and amounts due to us for services provided to the suppliers. volatility of the capital and credit markets, general economic conditions, and regulatory changes may adversely affect the solvency or creditworthiness of our suppliers. the bankruptcy, insolvency or other credit failure of any supplier at a time when the supplier has a substantial account payable balance due to us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. risks generally associated with our sophisticated information systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations. our businesses rely on sophisticated information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; to receive, process, and ship orders on a timely basis; to account for other product and service transactions with customers; to manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and to process payments to suppliers. certain of our businesses continue to make substantial investments in data centers and information systems, including, but not limited to, automation of our offering and continuous enhancements to our online ordering system, abc order. third-party service providers are also responsible for managing a significant portion of our information systems. to the extent our information systems are not successfully implemented or fail, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. our business and results of operations may also be adversely affected if a third-party service provider does not perform satisfactorily, or if the information systems are interrupted or damaged by unforeseen events, including due to the actions of third parties. information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks. a failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information or personal data, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. as a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, as cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. risks generally associated with data privacy regulation and the international transfer of personal data. we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations both in the united states and beyond that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between or among countries. many of these foreign data privacy regulations (including the general data protection regulation, which went into effect in the european union on may 25, 2018) are more stringent than those in the united states. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties. that or other circumstances related to our collection, use and transfer of personal data could cause a loss of reputation in the market and/or adversely affect our business and financial position. our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets may become impaired, which may require us to record a significant charge to earnings in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap") require us to test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. indicators that are considered include significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results, significant negative industry or economic trends or a significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. in addition, we periodically review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates, the loss of a significant customer, or divestiture of a business or asset for below its carrying value. the testing required by gaap involves estimates and judgments by management. although we believe our assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate, any changes in key assumptions, including a failure to 16 table of contents meet business plans or other unanticipated events and circumstances such as a rise in interest rates, may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long-lived assets is determined. any such charge could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. natural disasters or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be covered by insurance. the occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and other forms of severe hazards in the united states or in other countries in which we operate or are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. extreme weather, natural disasters, power outages or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of distribution centers or outsourcing facilities, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products, delay in the delivery of products to our distribution centers, and/or disruption of our ability to deliver products to customers. further, the long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmaceutical distribution industry in particular are unclear, and changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our businesses. existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for the costs that may arise from such events, particularly if such events are catastrophic in nature or occur in combination. any long-term disruption in our ability to service our customers from one or more distribution centers or outsourcing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our operations and performance depend on economic conditions in the united states and other countries where we do business. deterioration in general economic conditions could adversely affect the amount of prescriptions that are filled and the amount of pharmaceutical products purchased by consumers and, therefore, could reduce purchases by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our profitability. negative trends in the general economy, including interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions, may also affect our customers' ability to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms and reduce discretionary spending on health products. reduced purchases by our customers or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. bankruptcies or similar events affecting our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. declining economic conditions may also increase our costs. if the economic conditions in the united states or in the countries where we do business do not improve or deteriorate, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.