risk factors ------------ in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in forward looking statements at the beginning of item 1. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate. the value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership. since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of owning real estate-related assets, including: o lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale; o changes in general economic or local conditions; o natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods; o potential terrorist attacks; o changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area; o the impact of environmental protection laws; 16 o changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets; o increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses; o adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and o tenant and employment-related claims. in addition, we self-insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third-party insurers. this results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts, as described in note 16 under "insurance and loss exposure" to our consolidated financial statements at december 31, 2007. there is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2007. local market conditions will play a significant part in how competition will affect us. competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located from other self-storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant and has affected the occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses of some of our properties. any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition. further development of self-storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate. we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities. as an owner and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties. certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. in some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property. the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or microbial issues, also may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its property as collateral. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and intend to conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties. these assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity. in connection with these property assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become aware that prior operations or activities at some facilities or from nearby locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater at these facilities. in this regard, some of our facilities are or may be the subject of federal or state environmental investigations or remedial actions. we have obtained, with respect to recent acquisitions, and intend to obtain with respect to pending or future acquisitions, appropriate purchase price adjustments or indemnifications that we believe are sufficient to cover any related potential liability. although we cannot provide any assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available to cover any liability from environmental contamination or potential contamination and we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. there has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. when we receive a complaint concerning moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside experts. we seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve moisture infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual limitations on 17 liability for such claims. however, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future. delays in development and fill-up of our properties would reduce our profitability. from january 1, 2003, through december 31, 2007, we have opened 34 newly developed self-storage facilities in the u.s. and, since august 22, 2006, 15 newly developed facilities in europe. in addition, our development "pipeline" in the united states and europe at december 31, 2007 consist of 43 projects with total estimated costs of $251 million. we anticipate the development of these 43 projects to be completed in the next two years. construction delays due to weather, unforeseen site conditions, personnel problems, and other factors, as well as cost overruns, would adversely affect our profitability. delays in the rent-up of newly developed storage space as a result of competition or other factors would also adversely impact our profitability. property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments. each of our properties is subject to real property taxes. these real property taxes may increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. such increases could adversely impact our profitability. we must comply with the americans with disabilities act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. all our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations (the "ada"). the ada has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities," but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. various state laws impose similar requirements. a failure to comply with the ada or similar state laws could result in government imposed fines on us and could award damages to individuals affected by the failure. in addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we must resolve tenant claims and employment-related claims by corporate level and field personnel. we grow our business primarily through acquisitions of existing properties and are subject to risks related to acquisitions. we grow our business in large part through the acquisition of existing properties, including acquisitions of businesses owned by other storage operators. in addition to the general risks related to real estate described above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties, we are also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and the integration of acquired properties into our operations. any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could negatively impact our financial results. as an increasing part of our business, we acquire other self-storage facilities. we also evaluate from time to time other significant transactions. if these facilities are not properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer. any failure to successfully integrate acquired operations with our existing business could negatively impact our financial results. to fully realize any anticipated benefits from an acquisition, we must successfully complete the combination of the businesses of public storage and acquired properties in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized. it is possible that the integration process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with tenants and employees or to achieve anticipated benefits, particularly with large acquisitions. as a result of our acquisition of the international operations of shurgard in europe, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses. we have limited experience in european operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in europe. in addition, these operations have specific inherent risks, including without limitation the following: o currency risks, including currency fluctuations and risks related to foreign currency hedging activities; 18 o unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements; o potentially adverse tax burdens; o burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws; o obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; o regional, national and local political uncertainty; o economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets; o difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; o reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; and o inability to effectively control less than wholly-owned partnerships and joint ventures. some acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. some of the facilities we acquired in the shurgard merger have been, and will continue to be, subject to property tax reappraisal that could increase property tax expense and adversely affect our profitability. up to 17% of the domestic properties we acquired in the merger are located in jurisdictions that may provide for property tax reappraisal upon a change of ownership and so may face further reassessment. we may be unable to successfully complete the contemplated investment by a third party to acquire a significant portion of shurgard europe. we have announced that we have entered into an agreement in principle for a prospective investor to acquire a 51% interest in shurgard europe. however, no binding agreement has been signed with the prospective investor and there is no assurance that a binding agreement will be signed or that the transaction will be completed. we may be unable for any reason to finalize negotiations and completion of a possible transaction involving shurgard europe, and there can be no guarantee that any transaction involving the acquisition by a prospective purchaser of an interest in shurgard europe will occur. we are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures. in connection with our 2006 acquisition of shurgard, we acquired interests in several joint ventures that owned properties. joint ventures have additional risks, including without limitation, the following: o risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner. o the inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree. o the risk that we could lose our reit status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments. o the risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate. o the risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view joint ventured assets as less favorable as collateral. o the risk that the joint ventures could take actions that we could not prevent, which could result in negative rating agency impacts to our preferred stock and debt. o the risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to noncompete clauses in our joint venture arrangements. 19 o the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners. we are currently engaged in legal proceedings including arbitration and litigation with certain joint venture partners in the united states and europe. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 2007, b. wayne hughes, chairman of the board of trustees and his family (the "hughes family") owned approximately 25.3% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may or could control matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders. certain provisions of maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to stockholders. maryland law limits certain business combinations and changes of control of the company unless the board affirmatively elects not to be covered by the statutory provisions. currently, the board has opted out of the statutory limitations of both statutes. however, the board may in the future elect to be covered under the business combination provisions and the control share acquisitions provisions of maryland law. the business combination provisions of maryland law (in the event our board opts to make them applicable to us), the control share acquisition provisions of maryland law (if the applicable provision in our bylaws is rescinded), limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares and the advance notice provisions of our bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in their best interest. certain provisions of maryland law permit our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, certain other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review as such decisions may be subject in certain other jurisdictions. to preserve our status as a reit under the code, our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own. these ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the hughes family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than "designated investment entities" (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees. these limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a reit. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. as a reit, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income to our shareholders (which may take into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year). other restrictions apply to our income and assets. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, psb, as a reit, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and are unable to avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders. those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our 20 shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. as a result, our failure to qualify as a reit during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders. furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect reit status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify. we have also assumed, based on public filings, that shurgard qualified as a reit. however, if shurgard failed to qualify as a reit, we generally would have succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities (including the significant tax liability that would have resulted from the deemed sale of assets by shurgard pursuant to the merger). we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the company (including certain subsidiaries acquired in connection with the shurgard merger) have elected to be treated as "taxable reit subsidiaries" of the company for federal income tax purposes. a taxable reit subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount. in addition, if we receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements among our taxable reit subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of amounts deemed reasonable between unrelated parties. to the extent that the company or any taxable reit subsidiary is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. we have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes and the internet and are faced with security system risks. we have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes. as a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack. in addition, a portion of our business operations are conducted over the internet, increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations. experienced computer programmers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. we have no interest in canadian self-storage facilities owned by the hughes family. the hughes family has ownership interests in, and operates, 48 self-storage facilities in canada under the name "public storage." we currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in canada. we have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self-storage facilities in canada if the hughes family or the corporation agrees to sell them. however, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the canadian self-storage facilities. prior to december 31, 2003, company personnel were engaged in the supervision and the operation of these properties and provided certain administrative services for the canadian owners, and certain other services, primarily tax services, with respect to certain other hughes family interests. the hughes family and the canadian owners reimbursed us at cost for these services in the amount of $542,499 with respect to the canadian operations and $151,063 for other services during 2003 (in u.s. dollars). there were conflicts of interest in allocating time of our personnel between company properties, the canadian properties, and certain other hughes family interests. the sharing of company personnel with the canadian entities was substantially eliminated by december 31, 2003. through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage facilities in canada. we acquired the tenant insurance business on december 31, 2001 through our acquisition of ps insurance company, or psich. for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, psich received $906,000 and $989,000, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the canadian facilities. since psich's right to provide tenant reinsurance to the canadian facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. 21 increases in interest rates may adversely affect the price of our common stock. one of the factors that influence the market price of our common shares and our other securities is the annual rate of distributions that we pay on the securities, as compared with interest rates. an increase in interest rates may lead purchasers of reit shares to demand higher annual distribution rates, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and other securities. terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, such as those that took place on september 11, 2001, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. there can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the u.s., the european community, or their businesses or interests. attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. in addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the u.s. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. finally, further terrorist acts could cause the u.s. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. developments in california may have an adverse impact on our business. we are headquartered in, and approximately one-fifth of our properties in the u.s. are located in california. california is facing budgetary problems. action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as an increase in property taxes on commercial properties, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. in addition, we could be adversely impacted by efforts to reenact legislation mandating medical insurance for employees of california businesses and members of their families. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk - ------------------------------------------------------------------- to limit our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations and growth with permanent equity capital consisting either of common shares or preferred shares. at december 31, 2007, our debt as a percentage of total shareholders' equity (based on book values) was 12.2%. our preferred shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders. our series v shares are currently redeemable. except under certain conditions relating to the company's qualification as a reit, the preferred shares are not redeemable by the company prior to the following dates: series w - october 6, 2008, series x - november 13, 2008, series y - january 2, 2009, series z - march 5, 2009, series a - march 31, 2009, series b - september 30, 2009, series c - september 13, 2009, series d - february 28, 2010, series e - april 27, 2010, series f - august 23, 2010, series g - december 12, 2010, series h - january 19, 2011, series i - may 3, 2011, series k - august 8, 2011, series l - october 20, 2011, series m - january 9, 2012 and series n - july 2, 2012. on or after the respective dates, each of the series of preferred shares will be redeemable at the option of the company, in whole or in part, at $25 per depositary share (or share in the case of the series y), plus accrued and unpaid dividends through the redemption date. our market risk sensitive instruments include notes payable and borrowing on bank credit facilities, which totaled $1,031,847,000 and none, respectively, at december 31, 2007. we are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily from the floating rate debt arrangements we acquired in the merger with shurgard. we have foreign currency exposures related to our investment in the construction, acquisition, and operation of storage centers in countries outside the u.s. to the extent such activities are financed with financial instruments or equity denominated in non-functional currencies. the aggregate book value of such real estate and intangibles was approximately $1.7 billion at december 31, 2007. since all foreign debt is denominated in the corresponding functional currency, our currency exposure is limited to our investment (both equity and intercompany debt) in those countries. countries in which shurgard had exposure to foreign currency fluctuations include belgium, france, the netherlands, sweden, denmark, germany and the united kingdom. the table below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted-average interest rates on our outstanding debt at the end of each year (based on relevant libor of 4.60% and a euribor of 4.29% at december 31, 2007 and the applicable forward curve for following years) and fair values required to evaluate our expected cash-flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at december 31, 2007 (dollar amounts in thousands). 70 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value ---------- --------- ---------- ---------- --------- ---------- ---------- ------------ fixed rate debt........ $ 27,021 $ 12,508 $ 14,608 $ 227,179 $55,195 $ 311,291 $ 647,802 $ 647,802 average interest rate.. 6.73% 6.72% 6.71% 6.01% 5.80% 5.50% - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- variable rate debt (1). $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - average interest rate.. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- variable rate euribor debt (2)............. $ 189,064 $187,665 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 376,729 $ 376,729 average interest rate.. 6.14% 6.27% - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- interest rate swaps swap on euribor........ $ 555 $ 2,003 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 2,558 $ 2,558 (1) amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in 2012. (2) first shurgard and second shurgard have senior credit agreements denominated in euros to borrow, in aggregate, up to (euro)271.6 million ($399.8 million as of december 31, 2007). as of december 31, 2007, the available amount under those credit facilities was in aggregate (euro)12.5 million ($18.4 million). approximately $189.1 million in debt owed by first shurgard was originally scheduled to mature in may 2008. however, in february 2008, under the terms of the related credit agreement we have requested a one-year extension of the loan until may 2009. assuming we have met our loan covenants, which we believe we have met, the lender is required to grant our request. at december 31, 2007, through the shurgard merger, we were party to pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps. the notional amounts, the weighted-average pay rates and the terms of these agreements are summarized as follows: 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter ---------- --------- --------- --------- ---------- ------------- notional amounts (in millions).................. $ 120.0 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - weighted average interest rate. 3.73% - - - - - based on our outstanding variable-rate euribor debt and interest rate swaps at december 31, 2007, a hypothetical increase in the interest rates of 100 basis points would cause the value of our derivative financial instruments to increase by $3.0 million. conversely, a hypothetical decrease in the interest rates of 100 basis points would cause the value of our derivative financial instruments to decrease by $3.0 million. on january 2, 2007, we prepaid the (euro)325 million collateralized notes ($429 million at december 31, 2006) at our european operations that were otherwise payable in 2011. we also terminated the related european currency and interest rate hedges. accordingly, the remaining debt in europe relates to the joint venture properties, in which we have a 20% equity interest, and which are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.risk factors ------------ in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in forward looking statements at the beginning of item 1. -------------------------- since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. the value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership. since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including: o lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale; o changes in general economic or local conditions; o natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods; o potential terrorist attacks; o changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area; 10 o the impact of environmental protection laws; o changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets; o increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses; o transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes; o adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and o tenant and employment-related claims. in addition, we self-insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third-party insurers. this results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts, as described in note 13 under "insurance and loss exposure" to our consolidated financial statements at december 31, 2008. there is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2008. local market conditions will play a significant part in how competition will affect us. competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located from other self-storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant and has affected the occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses of some of our properties. any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition. further development of self-storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate. we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities. as an owner and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties. certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. in some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property. the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or microbial issues, also may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its property as collateral. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and intend to conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties. these assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity. in connection with these property assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become aware that prior operations or activities at some facilities or from nearby locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater at these facilities. in this regard, some of our facilities are or may be the subject of federal or state environmental investigations or remedial actions. we have obtained, with respect to recent acquisitions, and intend to obtain with respect to pending or future acquisitions, appropriate purchase price adjustments or indemnifications that we believe are sufficient to cover any related potential liability. although we cannot provide any assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available to cover any liability from environmental contamination or potential contamination and we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 there has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. when we receive a complaint concerning moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside experts. we seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve moisture infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. however, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future. delays in development and fill-up of our properties would reduce our profitability. from january 1, 2004, through december 31, 2008, we opened 22 newly developed self-storage facilities in the u.s. at a cost of $186 million. in addition, our development "pipeline" at december 31, 2008 consists of five projects with total estimated costs of $27 million. shurgard europe has developed and opened 52 facilities since january 1, 2004 at a cost of approximately $417 million, and has nine development projects under construction with total estimated costs of $82 million. construction delays due to weather, unforeseen site conditions, personnel problems, and other factors, as well as cost overruns, would adversely affect our profitability. delays in the rent-up of newly developed storage space as a result of competition or other factors, including the slowdown in the general economy which has negatively impacted storage demand, would also adversely impact our profitability. property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments. each of our properties is subject to real property taxes. these real property taxes may increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. such increases could adversely impact our profitability. we must comply with the americans with disabilities act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. all our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations (the "ada"). the ada has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities," but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. various state laws impose similar requirements. a failure to comply with the ada or similar state laws could result in government imposed fines on us and could award damages to individuals affected by the failure. in addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we must resolve tenant claims and employment-related claims by corporate level and field personnel. the global economic crisis could adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. by the end of 2008, the national economy was in a recession and the global financial crisis had broadened and intensified. declining economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, including higher unemployment rates, restrictions on the availability of credit, volatile energy costs, increased governmental needs for revenue, and other events or factors that adversely affect disposable incomes, have and are likely to continue to adversely affect our business. as a further result of the current global financial crisis, our ability to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets. the issuance of perpetual preferred securities has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. in the current market, we are not able to issue perpetual preferred securities at yields we believe are attractive. while we currently believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual, long-term continued turbulence in the credit markets and in the national 12 economy may adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities. we grow our business primarily through acquisitions of existing properties and are subject to risks related to acquisitions that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we grow our business in large part through the acquisition of existing properties, including acquisitions of businesses owned by other storage operators. in addition to the general risks related to real estate described above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties, we are also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and the integration of acquired properties into our operations. any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could negatively impact our financial results. our growth strategy includes acquiring other self-storage facilities. we also evaluate from time to time other significant transactions. if these facilities are not properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer. any failure to successfully integrate acquired operations with our existing business could negatively impact our financial results. to fully realize any anticipated benefits from an acquisition, we must successfully complete the combination of the businesses of public storage and acquired properties in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized. it is possible that the integration process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with tenants and employees or to achieve anticipated benefits, particularly with large acquisitions. some acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. some of the facilities we acquired in the shurgard merger have been, and will continue to be, subject to property tax reappraisal that could increase property tax expense and adversely affect our profitability. up to 17% of the domestic properties we acquired in the merger are located in jurisdictions that may provide for property tax reappraisal upon a change of ownership and so may face further reassessment. as a result of our ownership of 49% of the international operations of shurgard europe with a book value of $264.1 million at december 31, 2008, and our loan to shurgard europe aggregating $552.4 million at december 31, 2008, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results. we have limited experience in european operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in europe. in addition, european operations have specific inherent risks, including without limitation the following: o currency risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of our $264.1 million book value equity investment in shurgard europe, as well as the net proceeds to be received upon repayment of our loan to shurgard europe; o unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements; o potentially adverse tax burdens; o burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws; o obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; o regional, national and local political uncertainty; o economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets; 13 o difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; o reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; and o inability to effectively control less than wholly-owned partnerships and joint ventures. based upon current market conditions and recent operating result trends of shurgard europe, the following specific risks apply with respect to our investment in, and loan to, shurgard europe: o we have an obligation to loan up to an additional (euro)305 million to shurgard europe. shurgard europe exercised their option to extend our commitment to provide up to (euro)305 million of additional loans to shurgard europe through march 2010, either to fund the acquisition of shurgard europe's jv partner's interest in the joint ventures and/or repay shurgard europe's pro-rata share of the joint venture debt. while the acquisition of the joint venture partners' interests are subject to our approval, and shurgard europe's pro rata share of the aggregate joint venture debt is approximately (euro)50 million, this commitment may require us to loan additional funds to shurgard europe in amounts or under terms that we may not have otherwise agreed to. o joint ventures that shurgard europe has a 20% interest in have significant refinancing requirements. shurgard europe's two joint ventures collectively had approximately (euro)250 million ($355 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at december 31, 2008, which is non-recourse to shurgard europe. one of the joint venture loans totaling (euro)120 million ($170 million) is due may 2009 and the other joint venture loan totaling (euro)130 million ($185 million) is due in june 2009. shurgard europe is currently negotiating terms with the respective lenders to extend the maturities out one to three years. we expect shurgard europe to finalize these extensions within the next 90 days, although there can be no assurance that such extensions will actually be completed. if shurgard europe were unable to extend the maturity dates of the loans, it is our expectation that the loans would be repaid with each partner contributing their pro rata share towards repayment. shurgard europe's pro rata share, in the aggregate, would be approximately (euro)50 million ($70 million) which shurgard europe could borrow from us pursuant to our loan commitment described above. further, it is also possible that shurgard europe's joint venture partner will be unable to contribute its pro rata share to repay the loans and may trigger, through its rights under the related partnership documents, the liquidation of the partnership, which could result in shurgard europe's acquisition of its joint venture partner's interest or the sale of the properties to third properties, with potential loss or reduction to our investment if the liquidation proceeds were not sufficient. if shurgard europe were to acquire its joint venture partner's on such a circumstance, it could borrow on the aforementioned (euro)305 million loan commitment we have provided to fund the purchase of the joint venture partner's interest and repayment of the loans. o shurgard europe's ability to refinance its $552.4 million loan from us, which is due in march 2010, is limited based upon current market conditions. we have loaned shurgard europe (euro)391.9 million ($552.4 million at december 31, 2008), and this loan is due in march 2010. given the current capital markets, it is likely that shurgard europe would be unable to refinance the entire loan. if shurgard europe is unable to obtain financing to raise funds to repay our loan, we may have to negotiate an equity or debt contribution by our joint venture partner to shurgard europe, extend the loan, or otherwise take steps under our lender rights. any of these steps could negatively impact our investment and the liquidity of shurgard europe. o shurgard europe's operating trends are negative. shurgard europe's same-store revenue is down 2.3% in the quarter ended december 31, 2008 as compared to the same period in 2007 on a constant exchange rate basis, as compared to same-store revenue growth in the u.s. of 1.6%. the outlook for 2009 for shurgard europe is for continued reductions in same-store 14 revenues, which will adversely impact shurgard europe's operating results and its interest coverage ratio and other similar metrics upon which potential lenders typically base their lending decisions. we are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures. in connection with our 2006 acquisition of shurgard and the acquisition of a 51% interest in shurgard europe by an institutional investor on march 31, 2008, we hold interests in several joint ventures. joint ventures may present additional risks, including without limitation, the following: o risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner. o the inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree. o the risk that we could lose our reit status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments. o the risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate. o the risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view joint ventured assets as less favorable as collateral. o the risk that the joint ventures could take actions that we could not prevent, which could result in negative rating agency impacts to our preferred shares and debt. o the risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to noncompete clauses in our joint venture arrangements. o the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners. we are currently engaged in legal proceedings including litigation with certain joint venture partners. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 2008, b. wayne hughes, chairman of the board of trustees and his family (the "hughes family") owned approximately 21.0% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may or could control matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders. certain provisions of maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to shareholders. maryland law limits certain business combinations and changes of control of the company unless the board affirmatively elects not to be covered by the statutory provisions. currently, the board has opted out of the statutory limitations of both statutes. however, the board may in the future elect to be covered under the business combination provisions and the control share acquisitions provisions of maryland law. the business combination provisions of maryland law (in the event our board opts to make them applicable to us), the control share acquisition provisions of maryland law (if the applicable provision in our bylaws is rescinded), limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares and the advance notice provisions of our bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in their best interest. certain provisions of maryland law 15 permit our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, certain other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review as such decisions may be subject in certain other jurisdictions. to preserve our status as a reit under the code, our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own. these ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the hughes family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than "designated investment entities" (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees. these limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. if we failed to qualify as a reit for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a reit for income tax purposes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. as a reit, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income to our shareholders (which may take into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year). other restrictions apply to our income and assets. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, psb, as a reit, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and are unable to avail ourselves of relief provisions set forth in the code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders. those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. as a result, our failure to qualify as a reit during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders. furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect reit status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify. we have also assumed, based on public filings that shurgard qualified as a reit. however, if shurgard failed to qualify as a reit, we generally would have succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities (including the significant tax liability that would have resulted from the deemed sale of assets by shurgard to us pursuant to the shurgard merger). we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the company (including certain subsidiaries acquired in connection with the shurgard merger) have elected to be treated as "taxable reit subsidiaries" of the company for federal income tax purposes. a taxable reit subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount. in addition, if we receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements among our taxable reit subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of amounts deemed reasonable between unrelated parties. to the extent that the company or any taxable reit subsidiary is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. we have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications, and the internet and are faced with system security risks. we have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes. as a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack. in 16 addition, a portion of our business operations are conducted over the internet, increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations. experienced computer programmers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. nearly half of our move-ins comes from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or internet). we have no interest in canadian self-storage facilities owned by the hughes family. the hughes family has ownership interests in, and operates, 49 self-storage facilities in canada under the name "public storage." we currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in canada. we have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self-storage facilities in canada if the hughes family or the corporation agrees to sell them. however, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the canadian self-storage facilities. through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage facilities in canada. we acquired the tenant insurance business on december 31, 2001 through our acquisition of ps insurance company, or psich. for the years ended december 31, 2008 and 2007, psich received $768,000 and $906,000, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the canadian facilities. since psich's right to provide tenant reinsurance to the canadian facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. this state governmental supervision could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we provide or the methods by which we provide products and services, or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. in all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. no assurances can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past. for each of the years ended december 31, 2008 and 2007, revenues from our tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 3% of our revenues. failure to comply with applicable laws could harm our business and financial results. we are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and new york stock exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. 17 terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. there can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the u.s., the european community, or their businesses or interests. attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. in addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the u.s. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. finally, further terrorist acts could cause the u.s. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. developments in california may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we are headquartered in, and approximately one-fifth of our properties in the u.s. are located in california. the state of california and many local jurisdictions are facing severe budgetary problems. action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes on commercial properties, changes to sales taxes or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. in addition, we could be adversely impacted by efforts to reenact legislation mandating medical insurance for employees of california businesses and members of their families. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ---------------------------------------------------------- to limit our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations and growth with permanent equity capital consisting either of common shares and preferred shares. at december 31, 2008, our debt as a percentage of total shareholders' equity (based on book values) was 7.4%. our preferred shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders. at december 31, 2008, our series v, series w and series x shares are currently redeemable by us. except under certain conditions relating to the company's qualification as a reit, the preferred shares are not redeemable by the company pursuant to its redemption option prior to the dates set forth in note 8 to our december 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements. our market risk sensitive instruments include notes payable, which totaled $643,811,000 at december 31, 2008. we have foreign currency exposures related to our investment in shurgard europe, which has a book value of $264.1 million at december 31, 2008. we also have a loan receivable from shurgard europe, which is denominated in euros, totaling (euro)391.9 million ($552.4 million) at december 31, 2008. we also have an obligation, in certain circumstances, to loan up to an additional (euro)305 million to shurgard europe. the table below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted-average interest rates on our outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to evaluate our expected cash-flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at december 31, 2008 (dollar amounts in thousands). 55 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value --------- -------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- ---------- fixed rate debt (1).... $ 12,730 $ 14,870 $ 227,819 $ 55,575 $ 264,976 $ 67,841 $ 643,811 $ 650,536 average interest rate.. 5.69% 5.69% 5.69% 5.71% 5.62% 5.49% - - - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- variable rate debt (2). $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - average interest rate.. - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (1) approximately $96.7 million of the amounts otherwise due in 2011, and $13.5 million of the amounts otherwise due in 2013, were repaid in connection with a tender offer on february 12, 2009. (2) amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in 2012. as of december 31, 2008, we have no borrowings under our line of credit. 56risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in forward looking statements at the beginning of item 1. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. the value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership. since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including: lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale; changes in general economic or local conditions; natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods; which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage; potential terrorist attacks; changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area; the impact of environmental protection laws; changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets; increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses; transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes; adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and tenant and employment-related claims. in addition, we self-insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third-party insurers. this results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts, as described in note 13 under insurance and loss exposure to our december 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements. there is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2010. local market conditions play a significant part in how competition will affect us. competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition. further development of self-storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate. 11 we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities . as an owner and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties. certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. in some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property. the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or microbial issues, also may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell , lease or operate its property or to borrow using its property as collateral. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties. these assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity. in connection with these property assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become aware that prior operations or activities at some facilities or from nearby locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the so il or groundwater at these facilities. in circumstances where our environmental assessments disclose potential or actual contamination, we may attempt to obtain purchase price adjustments or indemnifications and, in appropriate circumstances, we obtain limited environmental insurance in connection with the properties acquired, but we cannot assure you that such protections will be sufficient to cover actual future liabilities nor that our assessments have identified all such risks. although we cannot provide any assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. there has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. when we receive a complaint concerning moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside experts. we seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve moisture infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. however, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the fut ure. delays in development and fill-up of our properties would reduce our profitability. from january 1, 2006, through december 31, 2010, we invested $106 million in development costs with respect to 11 new facilities. shurgard europe has developed and opened 41 facilities since january 1, 2006 at a cost of approximately $317 million. development and fill-up of these storage facilities is subject to significant contingencies such as obtaining appropriate governmental approvals. if we or shurgard europe were to commence significant development of facilities, construction delays due to weather, unforeseen site conditions, the need to obtain governmental approvals, personnel problems, and other factors, as well as cost ov erruns, would adversely affect our profitability. delays in the rent-up of newly developed storage space as a result of competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors, would adversely affect our profitability. property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments. each of our properties is subject to real property taxes. these real property taxes may increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. recent local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax rates or assessment levels or impose new taxes. such increases could adversely impact our profitability. we must comply with the americans with disabilities act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. all our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations (the ada ). the ada has separate compliance requirements for public accommodations and commercial facilities, but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. various state laws impose similar requirements. a failure to comply with the ada or similar state laws could lead to government imposed fines on us and/or litigation, which could also involve an award of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance.&#1 60; in addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. 12 we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we must resolve tenant claims and employment-related claims by corporate level and field personnel. global economic conditions adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. there continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve. these negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors that adversely affect disposable incomes, have and are likely to continue to adversely affect our business. although conditions in financial and credit markets improved during 2010, our ability to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates has been in the past, and may in the future be adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions. the issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. while we currently believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual, turbulence in the credit markets and in the national economy could adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities. the acquisition of existing properties is a significant component of our long-term growth strategy, and acquisitions of existing properties are subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we acquire existing properties, either in individual transactions or as part of the acquisition of other storage operators. in addition to the general risks related to real estate described above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties, we are also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and the integration of acquired properties into our operations. any failure to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions and to successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing business could negatively impact our financial results. if acquired facilities are not properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer. to fully realize any anticipated benefits from an acquisition, we must successfully integrate the property into our operating platform that permits cost savings to be realized and targeted revenue levels to be achieved. it is possible that failures or unexpected circumstances in the integration process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates at the acquired facilities or our existing properties. in addition, the integration process generally results in changes to the processes, standards, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements in the facilities acquired, which can adversely affect our ability to maintain the existing relationships with tenants and employees. these risks are more pronounced with larger acquisitions. acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal. the reappraisal process is subject to judgment of governmental agencies regarding estimated real estate values and other factors, and as a result there is a significant degree of uncertainty in estimating the property tax expense of an acquired property. reappraisal can result in substantial increases to the ongoing property tax payments as compared to the amounts paid by the seller. in future or recent acquisitions of properties, if actual property tax expenses following reappraisal exceed what we expected in making the acquisition decision, our operating results could be negatively impacted. 13 as a result of our ownership of 49% of the international operations of shurgard europe with a book value of $264.7 million at december 31, 2010, and our loan to shurgard europe aggregating $495.2 million at december 31, 2010, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results . we have limited experience in european operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in europe. in addition, european operations have specific inherent risks, including without limitation the following: currency risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of our $264.7 million book value equity investment in shurgard europe, as well as interest payments and the net proceeds to be received upon repayment of our loan to shurgard europe; unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements, potentially adverse tax burdens; burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws; the potential impact of collective bargaining; obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; regional, national and local political uncertainty; economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; inability to effectively control less than wholly-owned partnerships and joint ventures; and the importance of local senior management and the potential negative ramifications of the departure of key executives. based upon current market conditions and recent operating result trends of shurgard europe, the following specific risks apply with respect to our investment in, and loan to, shurgard europe: joint ventures that shurgard europe has a 20% interest in have significant refinancing requirements. shurgard europe's two joint ventures collectively had approximately 206 million ($273 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at december 31, 2010. these loans are secured by the joint ventures' respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by public storage, shurgard europe, or any third party. one of the joint venture loans, totaling 95 million ($126 million), is due may 2011, with a right to extend one year, and the other joint venture loan, totaling 111 million ($147 million), is due in july 2013. if shurgard europe's joint ventures were unable to refinance or otherwise repay these loans when due, it is our expectation that the loans would be repaid with each joint venture partner contributing their pro rata share towards repayment. shurgard europe's pro rata share, in the aggregate, would be approximately 41 million ($55 million), which shurgard europe would be required to fund either from available cash on hand or equity contributions from public storage and our joint venture partner. further, it is also possible that shurgard europe's joint venture partner would be unable to contribute its pro rata share to repay the loans and may trigger, through its rights under the related partnership documents, the liquidatio n of the partnership, which could result in shurgard europe's acquisition of its joint venture partner's interest or the sale of the properties to third parties, with potential loss or reduction to our investment if the liquidation proceeds were not sufficient. 14 shurgard europe's ability to refinance its $495.2 million loan from us, which is due in march 2013, may be limited due to market conditions. shurgard europe owes us 373.7 million ($495.2 million at december 31, 2010), and this loan is due in march 2013. if shurgard europe is unable to obtain financing to raise funds to repay our loan due to a constrained equity or credit environment or other factors, we may have to negotiate an equity or debt contribution by our joint venture partner to shurgard europe, extend the loan, or otherwise exercise our lender rights. shurgard europe's same store operating trends were recently negative. while shurgard europe had a 1.7% increase in revenue in the year ended december 31, 2010, shurgard europe had negative revenue growth in 2009. shurgard europe could have reductions in same store revenues in the future, which would adversely impact their operating results and, as a result, the value of our investment in shurgard europe. such reductions may negatively impact shurgard europe's liquidity and ability to repay its debt, including the debt owed to public storage, due to declining interest coverage ratios and other similar metrics upon which potential lenders typically base their lending decisions. we are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures. we have interests in several joint ventures that may present additional risks, including without limitation, the following: risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner; the inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree; the risk that we could lose our reit status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments; the risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate; the risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view assets held in joint ventures as less favorable as collateral; the risk that the joint ventures could take actions which may negatively impact our preferred shares and debt ratings, to the extent that we could not prevent these actions; the risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to non-compete clauses in our joint venture arrangements; and the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners. 15 the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 2010, b. wayne hughes, chairman of the board of trustees and his family (the hughes family ) owned approximately 16.7% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares and also allows for cumulative voting in the election of trustees. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders. certain provisions of maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to shareholders. certain provisions of maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to the statutory limitations of either the business combination provisions or the control share acquisitions provisions of maryland law, but the board may change this option as to either statute in the future. if the board chooses to make them applicable to us, these provisions could delay, deter or prevent a transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of common shares or might otherwise be in their bes t interest. similarly, (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board's ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review, could have the same effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in common shareholders' best interest. to preserve our status as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own. these ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the hughes family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than designated investment entities (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees. these limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction invo lving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. if we failed to qualify as a reit for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a reit for income tax purposes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. as a reit, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income to our shareholders (which may take into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year). other restrictions apply to our income and assets. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, psb, as a reit, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and are unable to avail ourselves of relief provisions set forth in the code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders. those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. as a result, our failure to qualify as a reit during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders. furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect reit status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify. 16 we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries of the company for federal income tax purposes. a taxable reit subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount. in addition, if we receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements among our taxable reit subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of amounts the internal revenue servic e deems reasonable between unrelated parties. to the extent that the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. we have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications, and the internet and are faced with system security and system failure risks. we have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes, and certain critical components of our operating systems are dependent upon third party providers. as a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted operations at our third party providers. even though we believe we utilize appropriate duplication and back-up procedures, a significant outage in our third party providers could negatively impact our operations. in addition, a portion of our business operations are conducted over the internet, increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations. experienced computer programmers may be able to penet rate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. nearly half of our new tenants come from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or internet). we have no ownership interest in canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the hughes family. at december 31, 2010, the hughes family had ownership interests in, and operated, 52 self-storage facilities in canada under the name public storage , which name we license to the hughes family for use in canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis. we currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in canada. we have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self-storage facilities in canada if the hughes family or the corporation agrees to sell them. however, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the can adian self-storage facilities. although we have no current plans to enter the canadian self-storage market, if we choose to do so without acquiring the hughes family interests in their canadian self-storage properties, our right to use the public storage name in canada may be shared with the hughes family unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage facilities in canada in which the hughes family has ownership interests. we acquired the tenant insurance business on december 31, 2001 through our acquisition of ps insurance company, or psich. during the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we received $605,000, $642,000 and $768,000 (based upon historical exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and canadian dollar in effect as the revenues were earned), respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the canadian facilities. since psich's right to provide tenant reinsurance to the canadian facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and new york stock exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. 17 there can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase operating costs. our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. this state governmental supervision could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we provide or the methods by which we provide products and services, or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. in all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. no assurances can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past. for the year ended december 31, 2010, revenues from our tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 4% of our revenues. terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. there can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the u.s., the european community, or their businesses or interests. attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. in addition, the adverse effects that such violen t acts and threats of future attacks could have on the u.s. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. finally, further terrorist acts could cause the u.s. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. developments in california may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we are headquartered in, and approximately one-fifth of our properties in the u.s. are located in, california, which like many other state and local jurisdictions is facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed business net receipts tax or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk to limit our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations and growth with permanent equity capital consisting of retained operating cash flow, capital raised through the issuance of common shares and preferred shares. at december 31, 2010, our debt as a percentage of total equity (based on book values) was 6.5%. our preferred shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders. these shares, however, are redeemable, after a set period of time, at our option. at december 31, 2010, our series w, series x, series y, series z, series a, series c, series d, series e, series f and series g preferred shares are currently redeemable by us at our option. under certain conditions relating to the company's qualification as a reit, the preferred shares are not redeemable by the company pursuant to its redemption option prior to the dates set forth in note 8 to our december 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements. our market-risk sensitive instruments include notes payable, which totaled $568,417,000 at december 31, 2010. we have foreign currency exposures related to our investment in shurgard europe, which has a book value of $264.7 million at december 31, 2010. we also have a loan receivable from shurgard europe, which is denominated in euros, totaling 373.7 million ($495.2 million) at december 31, 2010. the table below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted-average interest rates on our outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to evaluate our expected cash-flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at december 31, 2010 (dollar amounts in thousands). 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 133,775 $ 70,761 $ 265,583 $ 49,111 $ 29,133 $ 20,054 $ 568,417 $ 574,419 average interest rate 5.40 % 5.43 % 5.25 % 5.03 % 5.03 % 5.03 % variable rate debt (1) $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - average interest rate (1) amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in march 2012. as of december 31, 2010, we have no borrowings under our line of credit. 55risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in forward looking statements at the beginning of item 1. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. the value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership. since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including: lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale; changes in general economic or local conditions; natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods; which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage; potential terrorist attacks; changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area; the impact of environmental protection laws; changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets; increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses; transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes; adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and tenant and employment-related claims. in addition, we self-insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third-party insurers. this results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts, as described in note 13 under insurance and loss exposure to our december 31, 2011 financial statements. there is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2011. local market conditions play a significant part in how competition will affect us. competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition. further development of self-storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate. 11 we may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities . as an owner and operator of real properties, we may be required by law to clean up hazardous substances at our properties. certain laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous substances. liability is usually not limited to the value of the property. the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, also may adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. we have evaluated the environmental condition of, and potential liabilities associated with, most of our properties by conducting preliminary environmental assessments. these assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other properties in the vicinity. as a result, we have become aware that prior activities at some facilities (or migration from nearby properties) have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater at these facilities. when purchasing new properties, if we become aware of potential or actual contamination, we may attempt to obtain purchase price adjustments, indemnifications or environmental insurance coverage. we cannot assure you that such protections, if obtained, will always be sufficient to cover actual future liabilities nor that our assessments have identified all such risks. although we cannot provide any assurance, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. there has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. however, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future. delays in development and fill-up of our properties would reduce our profitability. development of self-storage facilities is subject to significant risks. construction and opening of these facilities can be delayed or increase in cost due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, personnel problems, and other factors. once newly developed facilities are opened, rent-up of the newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. while we or shurgard europe are not currently planning to develop additional facilities in the short-run, if we or shurgard europe were to commence significant development of facilities, our exposure to development and fill-up risks would increase. property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments. each of our properties is subject to real property taxes, which could increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. recent local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax rates or assessment levels or impose new taxes. such increases could adversely impact our profitability. we must comply with the americans with disabilities act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. all our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations (the ada ) and similar state law requirements. a failure to comply with the ada or similar state laws could lead to government imposed fines on us and/or litigation, which could also involve an award of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. in addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes. 12 global economic conditions adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. there continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve. these negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors that adversely affect demand for storage space, could continue to adversely affect our business. our ability to issue preferred shares or other sources of capital, such has borrowing, has been in the past, and may in the future, be adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions. the issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. we believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual and meet our current obligations. however, if we were unable to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates, that could limit the earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities. the acquisition of existing properties is a significant component of our long-term growth strategy, and acquisitions of existing properties are subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we acquire existing properties, either in individual transactions or as part of the acquisition of other storage operators. in addition to the general risks related to real estate described above, we are also subject to the following risks which may jeopardize our realization of benefits from acquisitions. any failure to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions and to successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing business could negatively impact our financial results. to fully realize anticipated earnings from an acquisition, we must successfully integrate the property into our operating platform. failures or unexpected circumstances in the integration process, such as a failure to maintain existing relationships with tenants and employees due to changes in processes, standards, or compensation arrangements, or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings. acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal which can result in substantial increases to the ongoing property taxes paid by the seller. the reappraisal process is subject to judgment of governmental agencies regarding estimated real estate values and other factors, and as a result there is a significant degree of uncertainty in estimating the property tax expense of an acquired property. in connection with future or recent acquisitions of properties, if our estimates of property taxes following reappraisal are too low, we may not realize anticipated earnings from an acquisition. 13 as a result of our ownership of 49% of the international operations of shurgard europe with a book value of $375.5 million at december 31, 2011, and our loan to shurgard europe aggregating $402.7 million at december 31, 2011, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results . we have limited experience in european operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in europe. in addition, european operations have inherent risks, including without limitation the following: currency risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of our equity investment in shurgard europe, as well as interest payments and the net proceeds to be received upon repayment of our loan to shurgard europe; unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements, potentially adverse tax burdens; burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws; the potential impact of collective bargaining; obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; regional, national and local political uncertainty; economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; inability to effectively control less than wholly-owned partnerships and joint ventures; and the importance of local senior management and the potential negative ramifications of the departure of key executives. the following additional specific risks apply with respect to our interest in and loan to shurgard europe: shurgard europe has debt outstanding that will be repaid before our loan : shurgard europe has a loan outstanding to wells fargo totaling $274.4 million ( 211.9 million) at december 31, 2011. while our loan participates pari passu with the wells fargo loan in a liquidation of shurgard europe, the wells fargo loan is due on november 2014, while our loan to shurgard europe matures in february 2015. in addition, shurgard europe is obligated to utilize most of its available cash flow to make principal payments on the wells fargo loan, which limits the principal payments that could otherwise be made on our loan. as a result, the wells fargo loan will be repaid prior to our loan. 14 shurgard europe's ability to repay its loan from us and wells fargo may be limited due to market conditions. if shurgard europe's available cash flow significantly declines and it is unable to obtain financing at a reasonable cost of capital due to a constrained equity or credit environment, negative operating trends, or other factors, it may not be able to repay either the wells fargo loan, or our loan. in such a circumstance, we may have to pursue less advantageous options, such as an additional equity contribution or loan, extending the maturity date of our loan, or exercising our lender rights. we have in the past extended the maturity date of our loan to shurgard europe, most recently to february 2015 from march 2013. shurgard europe's same store revenues have decreased in the past, and have recently exhibited negative trends. while shurgard europe had positive same store revenue growth in 2010 and 2011, the growth in same store revenue decreased to 1.3% in 2011 from 3.0% in 2010, and it had negative revenue growth in 2009 and could have reductions in revenue in the future. such reductions may negatively impact shurgard europe's liquidity and ability to repay its debts (including the debt owed to us), due to declining interest coverage ratios and other metrics which affect the availability and cost of capital, as well as reduce the value of our investment in shurgard europe. we are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures, most notably our investment in shurgard europe: ownership of assets in joint ventures may present additional risks, including without limitation, the following: risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner; the inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree; the risk that we could lose our reit status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments; the risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate; the risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view assets held in joint ventures as less favorable as collateral; the risk that the joint ventures could take actions which may negatively impact our preferred shares and debt ratings, to the extent that we could not prevent these actions; the risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to non-compete clauses in our joint venture arrangements; and the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 2011, b. wayne hughes, former chairman and current member of the board of trustees and his family (the hughes family ) owned approximately 16.7% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders. 15 certain provisions of maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to shareholders. certain provisions of maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to the statutory limitations of either the business combination provisions or the control share acquisitions provisions of maryland law, but the board may change this option as to either statute in the future. if the board chooses to make them applicable to us, these provisions could delay, deter or prevent a transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of common shares or might otherwise be in their best interest. similarly, (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board's ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review, could have the same effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in common shareholders' best interest. to preserve our status as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own. these ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the hughes family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than designated investment entities (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees. these limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. if we failed to qualify as a reit for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a reit for income tax purposes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. as a reit, we must distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income to our shareholders. other restrictions apply to our income and assets. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, psb, as a reit, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and are unable to avail ourselves of relief provisions set forth in the code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders. those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. as a result, our failure to qualify as a reit during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders. furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect reit status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify. we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries of the company for federal income tax purposes. a taxable reit subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount. in addition, to the extent that amounts paid to us by our taxable reit subsidiaries are in excess of amounts that would be paid under similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments. to the extent that the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. 16 we have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications, and the internet and are faced with system security and system failure risks. we have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes, and certain critical components of our operating systems are dependent upon third party providers. as a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted operations at our third party providers. even though we believe we utilize appropriate duplication and back-up procedures, a significant outage in our third party providers could negatively impact our operations. in addition, an increasing portion of our business operations are conducted over the internet, increasing the risk of viruses and other related risks that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations. experienced computer programmers may be able to undertake a cyber-attack and penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns, which could result in additional costs or legal liability to us. nearly half of our new tenants come from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or internet). we have no ownership interest in canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the hughes family. at december 31, 2011, the hughes family had ownership interests in, and operated, 53 self-storage facilities in canada under the name public storage , which name we license to the hughes family for use in canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis. we currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in canada. we have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self-storage facilities in canada if the hughes family or the corporation agrees to sell them. however, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the canadian self-storage facilities. although we have no current plans to enter the canadian self-storage market, if we choose to do so without acquiring the hughes family interests in their canadian self-storage properties, our right to use the public storage name in canada may be shared with the hughes family unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage facilities in canada in which the hughes family has ownership interests. we acquired the tenant insurance business on december 31, 2001 through our acquisition of ps insurance company, or psich. during each of the three years ended december 31, 2011, we received $0.6 million, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the canadian facilities. since psich's right to provide tenant reinsurance to the canadian facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and new york stock exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. there can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase operating costs. 17 our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our reinsurance activities, including those activities we have conducted in the past, or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment in a given jurisdiction. for the year ended december 31, 2011, revenues from our tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 4% of our revenues. terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. there is the risk of terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war against the u.s., the european community, or their businesses or interests, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. in addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the u.s. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. finally, further terrorist acts could cause the u.s. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. developments in california may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. we are headquartered in, and approximately one-fifth of our properties in the u.s. are located in, california, which like many other state and local jurisdictions is facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed business net receipts tax or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk to limit our exposure to market risk, we are capitalized primarily with preferred and common equity. our preferred shares are redeemable at our option generally five years after issuance, but the holder has no redemption option. our debt is our only market-risk sensitive portion of our capital structure, which totals $398.3 million and represents 4.8% of the book value of our equity at december 31, 2011. we have foreign currency exposures related to our investment in shurgard europe, which has a book value of $375.5 million at december 31, 2011. we also have a loan receivable from shurgard europe, which is denominated in euros, totaling 311.0 million ($402.7 million) at december 31, 2011. the table below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted-average interest rates on our outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to evaluate our expected cash-flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at december 31, 2011 (dollar amounts in thousands). 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 52,170 $ 264,851 $ 35,127 $ 30,009 $ 10,065 $ 6,092 $ 398,314 $ 404,802 average interest rate 5.85 % 5.73 % 5.34 % 4.33 % 5.59 % 5.66 % variable rate debt (1) $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - average interest rate (1) amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in march 2012 (and is expected to be extended, subject to agreeing to satisfactory renewal terms). as of december 31, 2011, we have no borrowings under our line of credit.risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in forward looking statements at the beginning of item 1. we have significant exposure to real estate risk. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. these risks include the following: natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues. damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. in addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be covered by insurance. see note 13 to our december 31, 2012 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. in addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the u.s. economy, reducing storage demand and impairing our operating results. operating costs could increase . we could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, increased or new property tax assessments or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases. the acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we have acquired material amounts of self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. as a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition. development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. at december 31, 2012, we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $169 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. there are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. there is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives . most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2012. competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. if development of self-storage facilities by other operators were to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, competition with our facilities could intensify. 11 we may incur significant liabilities from hazardous wastes or moisture infiltration . existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we weren't responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities. these assessments, commonly referred to as phase 1 environmental assessments, include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties. we are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our tenants' property, as well as potential health concerns. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. we are not aware of any hazardous waste or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. however, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could arise or develop in the future. settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes. economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate our properties. our ability to issue preferred shares or access other sources of capital, such as borrowing, has been in the past, and may in the future be, adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions. the issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. we believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual and meet our current obligations. however, if we were unable to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base would be limited. we have exposure to european operations through our ownership in shurgard europe. as a result of our ownership of 49% of the equity in shurgard europe with a book value of $411.1 million at december 31, 2012, and our loan to shurgard europe totaling $411.0 million at december 31, 2012, we are exposed to additional risks related to the ownership and operation of international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following: currency risks: currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our investment in, and loan to shurgard europe, as well as the related income we receive. legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: we are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. these laws can be difficult to apply or interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. such changes, or shurgard's failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens. 12 impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in shurgard europe: laws in europe and the u.s. may create, impede or increase the cost to public storage of, repatriation of funds we have invested in shurgard europe or our share of shurgard europe's earnings. risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in europe, could negatively impact shurgard europe's labor costs or operations. potential operating and individual country risks: economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates could pose challenges or result in future reductions of shurgard europe's same-store revenues. impediments of shurgard europe's joint venture structure: shurgard europe's significant decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner. as a result, shurgard europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive. in addition, we could be unable to separately pursue such opportunities due to certain market exclusivity provisions of the shurgard europe joint venture agreement, and our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to public storage due to the joint venture structure. refinancing risks: shurgard europe has a loan due to a bank (the bank loan ), maturing in november 2014, totaling $210.8 million ( 159.5 million), and a loan due to us, maturing in february 2015, totaling $411.0 million at december 31, 2012. as a condition of the bank loan, shurgard europe must use most of its available cash flow to make principal payments on the bank loan. as a result, the bank loan will be paid down and mature before ours, increasing the risk of nonpayment or default on our loan. in addition, if shurgard europe cannot refinance its debt upon maturity due to a constrained credit market, negative operating trends, or other factors, it may not be able to pay either the bank loan or our loan when due and the value of our equity investment could be negatively impacted. we may also be forced to pursue less advantageous options, such as an additional equity contribution or loan, extending the maturity date of our loan, or exercising our lender rights. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 2012, b. wayne hughes, our former chairman, and his family, which includes two members of the board of trustees (the hughes family ) owned approximately 15.9% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. 13 takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders. in certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. however, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction: provisions of maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with public storage. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to these provisions of maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval. to protect against the loss of our reit status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the hughes family or designated investment entities (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in either case unless a specific exemption is granted by our board of trustees. these limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. similarly, current provisions of our declaration of trust and powers of our board of trustees could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board's ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay substantial income taxes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. a qualifying reit does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing reit qualification of our affiliate, psb, as a reit, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. we believe that we are organized and have operated as a reit and we intend to continue to operate to maintain our reit status. there can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a reit. the highly technical nature of the reit rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, all could adversely affect our ability to comply. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular federal corporate rates on all of our taxable income and we also could be subject to penalties and interest. we would generally not be eligible to seek reit status again until the fifth taxable year after the first year of failure to qualify. any taxes, interest and penalties incurred would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect. we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. if tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable reit subsidiaries to us are greater than what would be paid under similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. to the extent the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. 14 we are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business and security breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business and customer relationships. we are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and internet commerce, with approximately half of our new tenants coming from the telephone or over the internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers. we centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events. as a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that resulted in a significant outage at our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. further, viruses and other related risks could negatively impact our information technology processes. we could also be subject to a cyber-attack or other data security breach which would penetrate our network security, resulting in misappropriation of our confidential information, including customer personal information. system disruptions and shutdowns could also result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasing our self-storage facilities. such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. we have no ownership interest in canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the hughes family. at december 31, 2012, the hughes family had ownership interests in, and operated, 53 self-storage facilities in canada (the canadian self-storage facilities ). these facilities are operated under the public storage tradename, which we license to the hughes family for use in canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis. we have a right of first refusal, subject to limitations, to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the canadian self-storage facilities if the hughes family or the corporation agrees to sell them. however, we do not benefit from profits or potential appreciation in value of the canadian self-storage facilities because we have no ownership interest in these facilities. we do not operate in the canadian self-storage market, and have no plans to do so. however, if we choose to do so without acquiring the hughes family interests in the canadian self-storage facilities, we may have to share the use of the public storage name in canada with the hughes family, unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. through our subsidiaries, we reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the canadian self-storage facilities. during each of the three years ended december 31, 2012, we received $0.6 million in reinsurance premiums attributable to the canadian self-storage facilities. because our right to earn these premiums may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and new york stock exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. 15 the patient protection and affordable care act as well as other healthcare reform legislation recently passed or being considered by congress and state legislatures (collectively, the healthcare legislation ) are expected to impact our business beginning in 2014. based on its current form, we believe that the healthcare legislation will at least moderately increase our costs; however, there could be a significant further negative impact to our costs and business depending upon how the various governmental agencies design and implement the specific regulations to implement the patient protection and affordable care act, the nature of further legislation that may be passed at the national and local level, and other factors. in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs. all our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future. compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. a failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities, or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment. for the year ended december 31, 2012, we recorded a total of $63.5 million in net income from our tenant reinsurance activities. developments in california may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. approximately one fifth of our u.s. properties, and our corporate headquarters, are located in california. california is facing budgetary problems and deficits. actions that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed business net receipts tax or other governmental efforts to raise revenues, could adversely impact our business and results of operations. there has been legislative discussion regarding the repeal of certain components of proposition 13, which, if so repealed, could result in a substantial increase in our property tax expense. 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk to limit our exposure to market risk, we are capitalized primarily with preferred and common equity. our preferred shares are redeemable at our option generally five years after issuance, but the holder has no redemption option. our debt is our only market-risk sensitive portion of our capital structure, which totals $468.8 million and represents 5.8% of the book value of our equity at december 31, 2012. we have foreign currency exposures related to our investment in shurgard europe, which has a book value of $411.1 million at december 31, 2012. we also have a loan receivable from shurgard europe, which is denominated in euros, totaling 311.0 million ($411.0 million) at december 31, 2012. the table below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted-average interest rates on our outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to evaluate our expected cash-flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at december 31, 2012 (dollar amounts in thousands). 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 254,576 $ 35,127 $ 30,009 $ 10,065 $ 1,003 $ 5,048 $ 335,828 $ 339,634 average interest rate 5.87 % 5.35 % 5.45 % 5.57 % 5.78 % 5.69 % variable rate debt (1) $ 133,000 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 133,000 $ 133,000 average interest rate 1.16 % (1) amounts represent borrowings under our line of credit which expires in march 2017, which had a variable interest rate at december 31, 2012 of 1.16%. these borrowings were repaid in january 2013.risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in forward looking statements at the beginning of item 1. we have significant exposure to real estate risk. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. these risks include the following: natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues. damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. in addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be covered by insurance. see note 13 to our december 31, 201 3 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. in addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the u.s. economy, reducing storage demand and impairing our operating results. operating costs could increase . we could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, increased or new property tax assessments or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases. the acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we have acquired material amounts of self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. as a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition. development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. at december 31, 201 3 , we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $196 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. there are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. there is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives . most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 201 3 . competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. if development of self-storage facilities by other operators were to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, competition with our facilities could intensify. 12 we may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration . existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities. these assessments, commonly referred to as phase 1 environmental assessments, include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties. we are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers property, as well as potential health concerns. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. we are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. however, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could arise or develop in the future. settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes. economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate our properties. our ability to issue preferred shares or access other sources of capital, such as borrowing, has been in the past, and may in the future be, adversely affected by challenging market conditions. the issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. i f we were unable to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base c ould be limited. we have exposure to european operations through our ownership in shurgard europe. as a result of our ownership of 49% of the equity in shurgard europe equity with a book value of $424 .1 million at december 31, 201 3 , and our loan to shurgard europe totaling $428.1 million at december 31, 201 3 , we are exposed to additional risks related to the ownership and operation of international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following: currency risks: currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our equity investment in, and loan to shurgard europe, as well as the related income we receive as well as future repatriation of cash . legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: we are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. these laws can be difficult to apply or 13 interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. such changes, or shurgard failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens. impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in shurgard europe: laws in europe and the u.s. may create, impede or increase our cost to repatriate capital or earnings from shurgard europe. risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in europe, could negatively impact shurgard europe labor costs or operations. potential operating and individual country risks: economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates have posed, and could continue to pose , challenges or result in future reductions of shurgard europe operating cash flows . impediments of shurgard europe joint venture structure: shurgard europe significant decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner. as a result, shurgard europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive. in addition, we could be unable to separately pursue such opportunities due to certain market exclusivity provisions of the shurgard europe joint venture agreement, and our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to public storage due to the joint venture structure. risks related to shurgard europe debt: shurgard europe has a term loan from a bank (the bank loan ) with a balance of approximately 107.5 million ($148.0 million) at december 31, 2013 maturing in november 2014 and a loan due to us (the shareholder loan ) totaling 311.0 million ($428.1 million) at december 31, 2013. on january 28, 2014, our joint venture partner in shurgard europe acquired 51% of the shareholder loan at face value, using the proceeds from a bank loan (the jv partner loan ), and the maturity date of the shareholder loan was extended to april 2019. the jv partner loan matures in two years and is collateralized with our joint venture partner interests in the shareholder loan and their interest in shurgard europe. shurgard europe will seek to refinance the bank loan. if shurgard europe is not able to refinance its debt due to a constrained credit market, negative operating trends or other reasons, our equity investment in shurgard europe could be negatively impacted. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 201 3 , b. wayne hughes, our former chairman, and his family, which includes two members of the board of trustees (the hughes family ) owned approximately 15.8% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders. 14 in certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. however, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction: provisions of maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with public storage. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to these provisions of maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval. to protect against the loss of our reit status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the hughes family or designated investment entities (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in either case unless a specific exemption is granted by our board of trustees. these limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. similarly, current provisions of our declaration of trust and powers of our board of trustees could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay substantial income taxes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. a qualifying reit does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing reit qualification of our affiliate, psb, as a reit, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. we believe that we are organized and have operated as a reit and we intend to continue to operate to maintain our reit status. there can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a reit. the highly technical nature of the reit rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, all could adversely affect our ability to comply. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular federal corporate rates on all of our taxable income and we also could be subject to penalties and interest. we would generally not be eligible to seek reit status again until the fifth taxable year after the first year of our failure to qualify. any taxes, interest and penalties incurred would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect. we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. if tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable reit subsidiaries to us are greater than what would be paid under similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject 15 to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. to the extent the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto , we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. we are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business and security breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business and customer relationships. we are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and internet commerce, with approximately half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers. we centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events. as a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that resulted in a significant outage at our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. further, viruses and other related risks could negatively impact our information technology processes. our or our customers confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated, due to a breach of our network security. such data security breaches as well as system disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasi ng our self-storage facilities. such events could lead to lost future revenue and adversely affect our results of operations. we have no ownership interest in canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the hughes family. at december 31, 201 3 , the hughes family had ownership interests in, and operated, 5 4 self-storage facilities in canada (the canadian self-storage facilities ). these facilities are operated under the public storage tradename, which we license to the hughes family for use in canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis. we have a right of first refusal, subject to limitations, to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the canadian self-storage facilities if the hughes family or the corporation agrees to sell them. however, we do not benefit from profits or potential appreciation in value of the canadian self-storage facilities because we have no ownership interest in these facilities. we do not operate in the canadian self-storage market, and have no plans to do so. however, if we choose to do so without acquiring the hughes family interests in the canadian self-storage facilities, we may have to share the use of the public storage name in canada with the hughes family, unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. through our subsidiaries, we reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by customers in the canadian self-storage facilities. during the years ended december 31, 201 3, 2012 and 2011 , we received $0. 5 million, $0.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the canadian self-storage facilities. because our right to earn these premiums may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. 16 we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and new york stock exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. the patient protection and affordable care act as well as other healthcare reform legislation recently passed or being considered by congress and state legislatures (collectively, the healthcare legislation ) are expected to impact our business beginning in 2014. based on its current form, we believe that the healthcare legislation will at least moderately increase our costs; however, there could be a significant further negative impact to our costs and business depending upon how the various governmental agencies design and implement the specific regulations to implement the patient protection and affordable care act, the nature of further legislation that may be passed at the national and local level, and other factors. in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs. all our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future. compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. a failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities , or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment. for the year ended december 31, 201 3 , we recorded a total of $67.8 million in net income from our tenant reinsurance activities.risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in forward looking statements at the beginning of item 1. we have significant exposure to real estate risk. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. these risks include the following: natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues. damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. in addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be covered by insurance. see note 13 to our december 31, 201 4 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. in addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the u.s. economy, reducing storage demand and impairing our operating results. operating costs could increase . we could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, increased or new property tax assessments or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases , weather, as well as governmental actions . the acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we have acquired self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. as a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition. development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. at december 31, 201 4 , we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $411 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. there are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. there is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives . our self-storage facilities generate most of our revenue and earnings . competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. if development of self-storage facilities by other operators were to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, competition with our facilities could intensify. 12 we may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration . existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities. these assessments, commonly referred to as phase 1 environmental assessments, include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties. we are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers property, as well as potential health concerns. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. we are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. however, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could arise or develop in the future. settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes. economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate. our ability to raise capital to fund our activities may be adversely affected by challenging market conditions. i f we were unable to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base c ould be limited. we have exposure to european operations through our ownership in shurgard europe. we own a 49% equity interest in shurgard europe , with our investment having a $395 million book value at december 31, 201 4. as a result, we are exposed to additional risks related to international operations that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following: currency risks: currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our equity investment in shurgard europe, as well as future repatriation of cash . legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: we are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. these laws can be difficult to apply or interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. such changes, or shurgard failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens. 13 impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in shurgard europe: laws in europe and the u.s. may create, impede or increase our cost to repatriate capital or earnings from shurgard europe. risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in europe, could negatively impact shurgard europe labor costs or operations. many of shurgard europe employees participate in various national unions. potential operating and individual country risks: economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates have posed, and could continue to pose , challenges or result in future reductions of shurgard europe operating cash flows . impediments of shurgard europe joint venture structure: shurgard europe significant decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner. as a result, shurgard europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive. in addition, we could be unable to separately pursue such opportunities due to certain market exclusivity provisions of the shurgard europe joint venture agreement, and our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to public storage due to the joint venture structure. risks related to shurgard europe debt: shurgard europe has a total of 407.5 million in debt outstanding at december 31, 2014, of which 35.0 million is due annually in each of 2015, 2016 and 2017 and 100.0 million is due annually in each of 2021, 2024 and 2025. if shurgard europe is not able to refinance its debt when due or otherwise service its debt obligations due to a constrained credit market, negative operating trends or other reasons, our equity investment in shurgard europe could be negatively impacted. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 201 4 , b. wayne hughes, our former chairman, and his family (together, the hughes family ) , which includes two members of the board, owned approximately 15.5 % of our aggregate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders. in certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. however, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction: provisions of maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with public storage. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to these provisions of maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval. to protect against the loss of our reit status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the hughes family or designated investment entities (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% 14 of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in either case unless a specific exemption is granted by our board . these limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board . similarly, current provisions of our declaration of t rust and powers of our board could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay substantial income taxes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. a qualifying reit does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing reit qualification of psb as a result of our substantial ownership interest in it . we believe that we are organized and have operated as a reit and we intend to continue to operate to maintain our reit status. there can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a reit. the highly technical nature of the reit rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, all could adversely affect our ability to comply. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular federal corporate rates on all of our taxable income and we also could be subject to penalties and interest. we would generally not be eligible to seek reit status again until the fifth taxable year after the first year of our failure to qualify. any taxes, interest and penalties incurred would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect. we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. if tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable reit subsidiaries to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. to the extent the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto , we will have less cash available fo r distribution to shareholders. in addition, certain local and state governments have imposed a tax on self-storage rent which, while in most cases is paid by our customers, increases the cost of self-storage rental to our customers and can negatively impact our revenues. other local and state governments may impose a self-storage rent tax in the future. we are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions, which may divert management time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business. we are subject to the risk of legal claims and proceedings and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business and otherwise, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial 15 legal fees as a result of these actions. resolution of these claims and actions may divert time and attention by our management and could involve payment of damages or expenses by us, all of which may be significant. in addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage. the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on us. we are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business and security breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business , customer , and employee relationships. we are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and internet commerce, with more than half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. we centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events. as a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that resulted in a significant outage at our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. further, viruses and other related risks could negatively impact our information technology processes. our or our customers or employees confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated, due to a breach of our network security. such cybersecurity and data security breaches as well as system disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasi ng our self-storage facilities. such events could lead to lost future revenue and adversely affect our results of operations and could result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits, which could be in excess of any available insurance that we have procured . we have no ownership interest in canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the hughes family. at december 31, 201 4 , the hughes family had ownership interests in, and operated, 54 self -storage facilities in canada (the canadian self-storage facilities ). these facilities are operated under the public storage tradename, which we license to the hughes family for use in canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis. we have a right of first refusal, subject to limitations, to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the canadian self-storage facilities if the hughes family or the corporation agrees to sell them. however, we do not benefit from profits or potential appreciation in value of the canadian self-storage facilities because we have no ownership interest in these facilities. we do not currently operate in the canadian self-storage market . i f we choose to do so without acquiring the hughes family interests in the canadian self-storage facilities, we may have to share the use of the public storage name in canada with the hughes family, unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. through our subsidiaries, we reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by customers in the canadian self-storage facilities. during the years ended december 31, 201 4, 2013 and 2012 , we received $0. 5 million, $0. 5 million and $0.6 million, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the 16 canadian self-storage facilities. because our right to earn these premiums may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and nyse , as well as applicable labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs. all of our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future. compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. a failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. our tenant re insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities , or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment , which could reduce our net income .risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in item 1, forw ard looking statements. we have significant exposure to real estate risk. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. these risks include the following: natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues. damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. in addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be covered by insurance. see note 13 to our december 31, 201 5 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. in addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the u.s. economy, reducing storage demand and impairing our operating results. operating costs could increase . we could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, increased or new property tax assessments or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases , weather, as well as governmental actions . the acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we have acquired self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. as a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition. development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. at december 31, 201 5 , we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $486 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. there are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. 12 there is significant competition among self-storage operators and from other storage alternatives . our self-storage facilities generate most of our revenue and earnings . competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. if development of self-storage facilities by other operators were to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, competition could intensify. we may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration . existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities. these assessments, commonly referred to as phase 1 environmental assessments, include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties. we are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers property, as well as potential health concerns. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. we are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. however, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could ar ise or develop in the future. settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes. settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities . economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate. our ability to raise capital to fund our activities may be adversely affected by challenging market conditions. i f we were unable to raise capital at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base c ould be limited. we have exposure to european operations through our ownership in shurgard europe. we own a 49% equity interest in shurgard europe , with our investment having a $388 million book value at december 31, 201 5. as a result, we are exposed to additional risks related to international operations that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following: currency risks: currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our equity investment in shurgard europe, as well as future repatriation of cash . 13 legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: we are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. these laws can be difficult to apply or interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. such changes, or shurgard failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens. impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in shurgard europe: laws in europe and the u.s. may create, impede or increase our cost to repatriate capital or earnings from shurgard europe. risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in europe, could negatively impact shurgard europe labor costs or operations. many of shurgard europe employees participate in various national unions. potential operating and individual country risks: economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates have posed, and could continue to pose , challenges or result in future reductions of shurgard europe operating cash flows . impediments of shurgard europe joint venture structure: shurgard europe significant decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner. as a result, shurgard europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive. in addition, we could be unable to separately pursue such opportunities due to certain market exclusivity provisions of the shurgard europe joint venture agreement, and our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to public storage due to the joint venture structure. risks related to shurgard europe debt: shurgard europe has a total of 600.0 million in unsecured debt outstanding at december 31, 2015, of which 100.0 million is due annually in each of 2021, 2024 and 2026, 130.0 million is due in 2025, 110.0 million is due in 2027 and 60.0 million is due 2030. if shurgard europe is not able to refinance its debt when due or otherwise service its debt obligations due to a constrained credit market, negative operating trends or other reasons, our equity investment in shurgard europe could be negatively impacted. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 2015, b. wayne hughes, our former chairman and his family, which includes his daughter, tamara hughes gustavson and his son, b. wayne hughes , jr., who are both members of our board of trustees (collectively, the hughes family ), owned approximately 14.4% of our aggre gate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders. in certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. however, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction: 14 provisions of maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with public storage. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to these provisions of maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval. to protect against the loss of our reit status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the hughes family or designated investment entities (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in either case unless a specific exemption is granted by our board . these limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the company not approved by our board . similarly, current provisions of our declaration of t rust and powers of our board could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay substantial income taxes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. a qualifying reit does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing reit qualification of psb as a result of our substantial ownership interest in it . we believe we have qualified as a reit and we intend to continue to maintain our reit status. there can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a reit. the highly technical nature of the reit rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, all could adversely affect our ability to comply. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular federal corporate rates on all of our taxable income and we also could be subject to penalties and interest. we would generally not be eligible to seek reit status again until the fifth taxable year after the first year of our failure to qualify. any taxes, interest and penalties incurred would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect. we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. if tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable reit subsidiaries to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. to the extent the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto , we will have less cash available fo r distribution to shareholders. in addition, certain local and tate governments have imposed 15 tax es on self-storage rent . w hile in most cases those taxes are paid by our customers, they increase the cost of self-storage rental to our customers and can negatively impact our revenues. other local and state governments may impose self-storage rent tax es in the future. we are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions, which may divert management time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business. we are subject to the risk of legal claims and proceedings and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business and otherwise, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial legal fees as a result of these actions. resolution of these claims and actions may divert time and attention by our management and could involve payment of damages or expenses by us, all of which may be significant. in addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage. the impact of any such legal claims, proceedings, and regulatory enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on us. we are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business . se curity breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business , customer , and employee relationships. we are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and internet commerce, with more than half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. we centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events. as a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that results in a significant outage of our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. our or our customers or employees confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated, due to a breach of our network security. such cybersecurity and data security breaches as well as system disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasi ng our self-storage facilities. such events could lead to lost future revenue and adversely affect our results of operations and could result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits, which could be in excess of any available insurance that we have procured . we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and nyse , as well as applicable local, state, and national labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. 16 in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs. all of our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future. compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. a failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. our tenant re insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities , or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment , which could reduce our net income .risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in item 1, forw ard looking statements. we have significant exposure to real estate risk. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. these risks include the following: natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues. damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. in addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be cov ered by insurance. see note 12 to our december 31, 201 6 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. in addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the u.s. economy, reducing storage demand and impairing our operating results. operating costs could increase . we could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, increased or new property tax assessments or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases , weather, increases to minimum wage rates, changes to governmental safety and real estate use limitations, as well as other governmental actions. the acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we have acquired self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. as a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired 12 property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition. development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. at december 31, 201 6 , we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $ 66 0 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. there are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, failure of revenue to meet our underwriting estimates, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. there is significant competition among self-storage operators and from other storage alternatives . our self-storage facilities generate most of our revenue and earnings . competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. development of self-storage facilities has increased in recent years, which has intensified competition and will continue to do so as newly developed facilities are opened. d evelopment of self-storage facilities by other operators could continue to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, and further intensify competition . we may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration . existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities. these assessments, commonly referred to as phase 1 environmental assessments, include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties. we are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers property, as well as potential health concerns. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. we are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. however, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could ar ise or develop in the future. settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. we incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. from time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes. settling any such liabilities could negatively impact our earnings and cash available for distribution to shareholders, and could also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities . economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate. 13 our ability to raise capital to fund our activities may be adversely affected by challenging market conditions. i f we were unable to raise capital at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base c ould be limited. we have exposure to european operations through our ownership in shurgard europe. we own a 49% equity interest in shurgard europe , with our investment having a $ 280 million book value at december 31, 201 6 , and $22.3 million in equity in earnings in 2016 . as a result, we are exposed to additional risks related to international operations that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following: currency risks: currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our equity investment in shurgard europe, as well as future repatriation of cash . legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: we are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. these laws can be difficult to apply or interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. such changes, or shurgard failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens. impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in shurgard europe: laws in europe and the u.s. may create, impede or increase our cost to repatriate capital or earnings from shurgard europe. risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in europe, could negatively impact shurgard europe labor costs or operations. many of shurgard europe employees participate in various national unions. potential operating and individual country risks: economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates have posed, and could continue to pose , challenges or result in future reductions of shurgard europe operating cash flows . impediments of shurgard europe joint venture structure: shurgard europe s trategic decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner. as a result, shurgard europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive and we could be unable to separately pursue such opportunities due to certain market exclusivity provisions , which expire on march 31, 2018, of the shurgard europe joint venture agreement. in addition, our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to public storage due to the joint venture structure. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 201 6 , b. wayne hughes, our former chairman and his family, which includes his daughter, tamara hughes gustavson and his son, b. wayne hughes , jr., who are both members of our board of trustees (collectively, the hughes family ), owned approximately 14. 3 % of our aggre gate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. 14 takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders. in certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. however, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction: provisions of maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with public storage. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to these provisions of maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval. to protect against the loss of our reit status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the hughes family or designated investment entities (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in either case unless a specific exemption is granted by our board . these limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the company not approved by our board . similarly, current provisions of our declaration of t rust and powers of our board could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay substantial income taxes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. a qualifying reit does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing reit qualification of psb as a result of our substantial ownership interest in it . we believe we have qualified as a reit and we intend to continue to maintain our reit status. there can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a reit. the highly technical nature of the reit rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, all could adversely affect our ability to comply. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit and statutory relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular federal corporate rates on all of our taxable income and we also could be subject to penalties and interest. we would generally not be eligible to seek reit status again until the fifth taxable year after the first year of our failure to qualify. any taxes, interest and penalties incurred would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect. holders of our preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock. holders of our preferred shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common stock. upon liquidation, holders of our preferred shares will receive a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (or $25.00 per depositary share) plus any accrued and unpaid distributions before any payment is made to the common shareholders. these preferences may limit the amount received by our common shareholders either from ongoing distributions or upon liquidation. in addition, our preferred shareholders 15 have the right to elect two additional directors to our board whenever dividends are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. potential changes in tax laws could negatively impact us. the trump administration and the republican-led congress are exploring potential changes to u.s. tax law, such as reducing income tax rates, reducing the deductibility of interest, changing the allowable recovery periods for acquired assets, and eliminating or limiting many other deductions and credits. these potential changes, and others we may not be aware of, could have negative impacts such as reducing the value of our common stock, reducing our access to capital, or making the acquisition of real estate assets less attractive. in response, we may need to take actions such as changing our sources of capital, revising our capital allocation and asset acquisition strategy, or reconsidering our status as a reit. such responses could be costly, reduce cash available for distributions to shareholders, and present certain business and tax risks. we cannot predict whether, when, or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain consolidated corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. if tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable reit subsidiaries to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. to the extent the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto , we will have less cash available fo r distribution to shareholders. in addition, certain local and tate governments have imposed tax es on self-storage rent . w hile in most cases those taxes are paid by our customers, they increase the cost of self-storage rental to our customers and can negatively impact our revenues. other local and state governments may impose self-storage rent tax es in the future. we are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions, which may divert management time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business. we are subject to the risk of legal claims and proceedings and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business and otherwise, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial legal fees as a result of these actions. resolution of these claims and actions may divert time and attention by our management and could involve payment of damages or expenses by us, all of which may be significant. in addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage. the impact of any such legal claims, proceedings, and regulatory enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on us. we are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business . se curity breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business , customer , and employee relationships. we are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and internet commerce, with more than half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. we centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events. 16 as a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that results in a significant outage of our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. our or our customers or employees confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated, due to a breach of our network security. such cybersecurity and data security breaches as well as system disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasi ng our self-storage facilities. such events could lead to lost future revenue and adversely affect our results of operations and could result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits, which could be in excess of any available insurance that we have procured . we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and nyse , as well as applicable local, state, and national labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs. all of our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future. compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. a failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. our tenant re insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities , or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment , which could reduce our net income .risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in item 1, business . we have significant exposure to real estate risk. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that could result in reduced revenues, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, or increased borrowings, which could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow available for distribution or reinvestment, and our stock price : natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues. damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. in addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be cov ered by insurance. see note 13 to our december 31, 201 7 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. in addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on the u.s. economy, reducing storage demand. operating costs , including property taxes, could increase . we could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, property or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases , weather, increases to minimum wage rates, changes to governmental safety and real estate use limitations, as well as other governmental actions. our property tax expense, which totaled approximately $ 236.4 million during the year ended december 31, 2017, generally depends upon the assessed value of our real estate facilities as determined by assessors and government agencies, and accordingly could be subject to substantial increases if such agencies changed their valuation approaches or opinions or if new laws are enacted. the acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we have acquired self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. as a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition. development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. at december 31, 201 7 , we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $ 614 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. there are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost 12 increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, failure of revenue to meet our underwriting estimates, weather issues , unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. there is significant competition among self-storage operators and from other storage alternatives . our self-storage facilities generate most of our revenue and earnings . competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. development of self-storage facilities has increased in recent years, which has intensified competition and will continue to do so as newly developed facilities are opened. d evelopment of self-storage facilities by other operators could continue to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, and further intensify competition . we may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration . existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities. these assessments, commonly referred to as phase 1 environmental assessments, include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties. we are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers property, as well as potential health concerns. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. we are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. however, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could ar ise or develop at our properties, any of which would result in a cash settlement or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities . economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate. our ability to raise capital to fund our activities may be adversely affected by challenging market conditions. i f we were unable to raise capital at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base c ould be limited. we have exposure to european operations through our ownership in shurgard europe. we own a 49% equity interest in shurgard europe, with our investment having a $ 32 4 million book value at december 31, 201 7 , and $ 2 5 . 9 million in equity in earnings in 201 7 . as a result, we are exposed to additional risks related to international operations that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following: currency risks: currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our equity investment in shurgard europe, as well as future repatriation of cash . legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: we are subject to complex foreign laws and regulations related to 13 permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. these laws can be difficult to apply or interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. such changes, or shurgard failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens. impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in shurgard europe: laws in europe and the u.s. may create, impede or increase our cost to repatriate capital or earnings from shurgard europe. risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in europe, could negatively impact shurgard europe labor costs or operations. many of shurgard europe employees participate in various national unions. potential operating and individual country risks: economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates have posed, and could continue to pose , challenges or result in future reductions of shurgard europe operating cash flows . impediments of shurgard europe joint venture structure: shurgard europe s trategic decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, require the consent of our joint venture partner. as a result, shurgard europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive but that we may not be able to pursue economically outside the joint venture. in addition, our 49% equity investment may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by potential lenders to public storage due to the joint venture structure. the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 3 1 , 201 7 , b. wayne hughes, our former chairman and his family, which includes his daughter, tamara hughes gustavson and his son, b. wayne hughes , jr., who are both members of our board of trustees (collectively, the hughes family ), owned approximately 14. 3 % of our aggre gate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders. in certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. however, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction: provisions of maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with public storage. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to these provisions of maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval. to protect against the loss of our reit status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the hughes family or designated investment entities (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares . our board may grant a specific exemption . 14 these limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the company not approved by our board . similarly, current provisions of our declaration of t rust and powers of our board could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay substantial income taxes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. a qualifying reit does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing reit qualification of psb as a result of our substantial ownership interest in it . we believe we have qualified as a reit and we intend to continue to maintain our reit status. there can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a reit, because of the highly technical nature of the reit rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, as well as share ownership limits in our articles of incorporation that do not necessarily ensure that our shareholder base is sufficiently diverse for us to qualify as a reit. for any year we fail to qualify as a reit, unless certain relief provisions apply (the granting of such relief could nonetheless result in significant excise or penalty taxes), we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid, we would be subject to corporate tax on our taxable income, and generally we would not be allowed to elect reit status until the fifth year after such a disqualification. any taxes, interest, and penalties incurred would reduce our cash available for distributions to shareholders and could negatively affect our stock price. however, for years in which we failed to qualify as a reit, we would not be subject to reit rules which require us to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders. holders of our preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock. holders of our preferred shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common stock. upon liquidation, holders of our preferred shares will receive a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (or $25.00 per depositary share) plus any accrued and unpaid distributions before any payment is made to the common shareholders. these preferences may limit the amount received by our common shareholders either from ongoing distributions or upon liquidation. in addition, our preferred shareholders have the right to elect two additional directors to our board whenever dividends are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. recent and p otential changes in tax laws could negatively impact us. the united states treasury department and congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance. we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us or our shareholders. in particular, the legislation passed last december, commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcja ), which was signed into law on december 22, 2017 and which generally takes effect for taxable years beginning on or after january 1, 2018 (subject to certain exceptions), makes many significant changes to the federal income tax laws that will profoundly impact the taxation of individuals and corporations (both regular c corporations as well as corporations that have elected reit status). a number of changes that affect non-corporate taxpayers will expire at the end of 2025 unless congress acts to extend them. these changes will impact us and our shareholders in various ways, some of which are potentially 15 adverse compared to prior law. to date, the irs has issued only limited guidance with respect to certain of the new provisions, and there are numerous interpretive issues that will require guidance. it is highly likely that technical corrections legislation will be needed to clarify certain aspects of the new law and give proper effect to congressional intent. there can be no assurance, however, that technical corrections needed to prevent unintended or unforeseen tax consequences will be enacted by congress in the near future or that any corrections made may not have further adverse, unintended or unforeseen tax consequences. changes made by the tcja will limit our ability to deduct compensation in excess of $1 million paid to certain senior executives. this could require us to increase distributions to our shareholders in order to avoid paying tax and to maintain our reit status. we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain consolidated corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. if tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable reit subsidiaries to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. to the extent the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto , we will have less cash available fo r distribution to shareholders. in addition, certain local and tate governments have imposed tax es on self-storage rent . w hile in most cases those taxes are paid by our customers, they increase the cost of self-storage rental to our customers and can negatively impact our revenues. other local and state governments may impose self-storage rent tax es in the future. we are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions, which may divert management time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business. we have over 5,500 employees and 1.5 million customers at any point of time, and we conduct business at facilities with 159 million net rentable square feet of storage space. as a result, w e are subject to the risk of legal claims and proceedings (including class actions) and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business and otherwise, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial legal fees as a result of these actions. resolution of these claims and actions may divert time and attention by our management and could involve payment of damages or expenses by us, all of which may be significant. in addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage. the impact of any such legal claims, proceedings, and regulatory enforcement actions and could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow available for distribution or reinvestment, and or the price of our common shares . we are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business . se curity breaches or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could adversely impact our business , customer , and employee relationships. we are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and internet commerce, with more than half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the internet, and the nature of our business involves the receipt and retention of personal information about our customers. we also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. we centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events. 16 as a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other circumstance that results in a significant outage of our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. our or our customers or employees confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated, due to a breach of our network security. such cybersecurity and data security breaches as well as system disruptions and shutdowns could result in additional costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems and possible legal liability, including government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasi ng our self-storage facilities. such events could lead to lost future revenue and adversely affect our results of operations and could result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits, which could be in excess of any available insurance that we have procured . we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and nyse , as well as applicable local, state, and national labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs. all of our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future. compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. a failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. our tenant re insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities , or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment , which could reduce our net income .risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in item 1, business . we have significant exposure to real estate risk. since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that could result in reduced revenues, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, or increased borrowings, which could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow available for distribution or reinvestment, and our stock price : natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, reducing our revenues. damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. in addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be cov ered by insurance. see note 13 to our december 31, 201 8 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. in addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on storage demand and/or our revenues . operating costs , including property taxes, could increase . we could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, property or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases , weather, increases to minimum wage rates, changes to governmental safety and real estate use limitations, 12 as well as other governmental actions. our property tax expense, which totaled approximately $ 2 5 6. 9 million during the year ended december 31, 201 8 , generally depends upon the assessed value of our real estate facilities as determined by assessors and government agencies, and accordingly could be subject to substantial increases if such agencies changed their valuation approaches or opinions or if new laws are enacted. the acquisition of existing properties is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we have acquired self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. as a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating newly acquired properties into our operations or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition. development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. at december 31, 201 8 , we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $ 607.4 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. there are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, failure of revenue to meet our underwriting estimates, weather issues , unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. there is significant competition among self-storage operators and from other storage alternatives . our self-storage facilities generate most of our revenue and earnings . competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. development of self-storage facilities has increased in recent years, which has intensified competition and will continue to do so as newly developed facilities are opened. d evelopment of self-storage facilities by other operators could continue to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, and further intensify competition . we may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration . existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified material liabilities. these assessments, commonly referred to as phase 1 environmental assessments, include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties. we are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers property, as well as potential health concerns. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. we are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. however, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could ar ise or develop at our properties, any of which would result in a cash settlement or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities . 13 economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate. our ability to raise capital to fund our activities may be adversely affected by challenging market conditions. i f we were unable to raise capital at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base c ould be limited. we have exposure to european operations through our ownership in shurgard europe. we own a 35.2% equity interest in shurgard europe, with our investment having a $ 3 49.5 million book value at december 31, 201 8 , and $ 14.1 million in equity in earnings in 201 8 . as a result, we are exposed to additional risks related to international operations that may adversely impact our business and financial results, including the following: currency risks: currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our investment in shurgard europe, as well as future repatriation of cash . legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: shurgard europe is subject to a variety of local, national, and pan european laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. these laws can be difficult to apply or interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. such changes, or shurgard europe failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens. impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in shurgard europe: laws in europe and the u.s. may create, impede or increase our cost to repatriate distributions received from shurgard europe or proceeds from the sale of shurgard europe shares . risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in europe, could negatively impact shurgard europe labor costs or operations. many of shurgard europe employees participate in various national unions. potential operating and individual country risks: economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates have posed, and could continue to pose , challenges or result in future reductions of shurgard europe operating cash flows . liquidity of our ownership stake: we have no plans to liquidate our interest in shurgard europe. however, while shurgard europe is a publicly held entity, our ability to liquidate our shares in shurgard europe, if we chose to, could be limited by the level of shurgard europe public float relati ve to our ownership stake . we are subject to a contractual lock up that prevents us from selling any shares until april 9, 2019 , and our existing relationship with our legacy joint venture partner may place further contractual limitations on our ability to sell all of the shares we own if we desired to do so. impediments of shurgard europe public ownership structure: shurgard europe s trategic decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, are determined by its board of directors . as a result, shurgard europe may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive but that we may not be able to pursue economically separately . 14 the hughes family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 3 1 , 201 8 , b. wayne hughes, our former chairman and his family, which includes his daughter, tamara hughes gustavson and his son, b. wayne hughes , jr., who are both members of our board of trustees (collectively, the hughes family ), owned approximately 14. 5 % of our aggre gate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, resulting in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders. in certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. however, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction: provisions of maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with public storage. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to these provisions of maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval. to protect against the loss of our reit status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the hughes family or designated investment entities (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares . our board may grant a specific exemption . these limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the company not approved by our board . similarly, current provisions of our declaration of t rust and powers of our board could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay substantial income taxes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. a qualifying reit does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing reit qualification of psb as a result of our substantial ownership interest in it . we believe we have qualified as a reit and we intend to continue to maintain our reit status. there can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a reit, because of the highly technical nature of the reit rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods or changes in our circumstances, as well as share ownership limits in our articles of incorporation that do not necessarily ensure that our shareholder base is sufficiently diverse for us to qualify as a reit. for any year we fail to qualify as a reit, unless certain relief provisions apply (the granting of such relief could nonetheless result in significant excise or penalty taxes), we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid, we would be subject to corporate tax on our taxable income, and generally we would not be allowed to elect reit status until the fifth year after such a disqualification. any taxes, interest, and penalties incurred would reduce 15 our cash available for distributions to shareholders and could negatively affect our stock price. however, for years in which we failed to qualify as a reit, we would not be subject to reit rules which require us to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders. holders of our preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock. holders of our preferred shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common stock. upon liquidation, holders of our preferred shares will receive a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (or $25.00 per depositary share) plus any accrued and unpaid distributions before any payment is made to the common shareholders. these preferences may limit the amount received by our common shareholders either from ongoing distributions or upon liquidation. in addition, our preferred shareholders have the right to elect two additional directors to our board whenever dividends are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. preferred shareholders are subject to certain risks holders of our preferred shares have preference rights over our common shareholders with respect to liquidation and distributions, which give them some assurance of continued payment of their stated dividend rate, and receipt of their pri ncipal upon liquidation of the c ompany or redemption of their securities. however, holders of our preferred shares should consider the following risks: the company has in the past, and could in the future, issue or assume additional debt. preferred shareholders would be subordinated to the interest and principal payments of such debt, which would increase the risk that there would not be sufficient funds to pay distributions or liquidation amounts to the preferred shareholders. the company has in the past, and could in the future, issue additional preferred shares that, while pari passu to the existing preferred shares, increases the risk that there would not be sufficient funds to pay distributions to the preferred shareholders. while the company has no plans to do so, if the company were to lose its reit status or no longer elect reit status, it would no longer be required to distribute its taxable income to maintain reit status. i f, i n such a circumstance, the company ceased paying dividends, unpaid distributions to the preferred shareholders would continue to accumulate . the preferred shareholders would have the ability to elect two additional members to serve on our board of trustees until the arrearage was cured. the preferred shareholders would not receive any compensation (such as interest) for the delay in the receipt of distributions, and it is possible that the arrearage could accumulate indefinitely. changes in tax laws could negatively impact us. the united states treasury department and congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance. we cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us or our shareholders. changes made by the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcja ), signed into law on december 22, 2017, will limit our ability to deduct compensation in excess of $1 million paid to certain senior executives. this could require us to increase distributions to our shareholders in order to avoid paying tax and to maintain our reit status. 16 we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain consolidated corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. if tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable reit subsidiaries to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. to the extent the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto , we will have less cash available fo r distribution to shareholders. in addition, certain local and tate governments have imposed tax es on self-storage rent . w hile in most cases those taxes are paid by our customers, they increase the cost of self-storage rental to our customers and can negatively impact our revenues. other local and state governments may impose self-storage rent tax es in the future. we have exposure to increased property tax in california. approximately $56 5 million of our 2018 net operating income is from our properties in california, and we incurred approximately $ 4 1 million in related property tax expense. due to the impact of proposition 13, which generally limits increases in assessed values to 2 % per year, the assessed value and resulting property tax we pay is less than it would be if the properties were assessed at current values. from time to time , proposals have been made to reduce the beneficial impact of proposition 13, particularly with respect to commercial and industrial ( non-residential ) real estate , which would include self-storage facilities. in late 2018, an initiative qualified for california november 2020 statewide ballot that would create a split roll, generally making proposition 13 protections only applicable to residential real estate. we cannot predict whether the initiative will actually be on the ballot in 2020, or what the prospects for passage might be, or whether other changes to proposition 13 may be proposed or adopted. if the initiative or a similar proposal were to be adopted, it would end the beneficial effect of proposition 13 for our properties, and our property tax expense could increase substantially, adversely affecting our cash flow from operations and net income . we are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions, which may divert management time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business. we have over 5, 6 00 employees , more than 1. 4 million customers, and we conduct business at facilities with 1 62 million net rentable square feet of storage space. as a result, w e are subject to the risk of legal claims and proceedings (including class actions) and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business and otherwise, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial legal fees as a result of these actions. resolution of these claims and actions may divert time and attention by our management could involve payment of damages or expenses by us, all of which may be significant , and could damage our reputation and our brand . in addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage. the impact of any such legal claims, proceedings, and regulatory enforcement actions and could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow available for di stribution or reinvestment, and/ or the price of our common shares . we are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the internet to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. the failure or disruption of our computer and communications systems could significantly harm our business . we are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and internet commerce, with more than half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the internet. we centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. these 17 systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, hackers, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events. such incidents could also result in significant costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems. as a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack, attack by hackers, acts of vandalism, data theft, misplaced or lost data, programming or human error, or other circumstance that results in a significant outage of our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. if our confidential information is compromised or corrupted, including as a result of a cybersecurity breach, our reputation and business relationships could be damaged, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. in the ordinary course of our business we acquire and store sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our prospective and current customers and our employees. the secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. although we believe we have taken commercially reasonable steps to protect the security of our confidential information, information security risks have generally increased in recent years due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyberattacks. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure could be vulnerable to a cyberattack or other data security breach which would penetrate our network security and our or our customers or employees confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated. our confidential information may also be compromised due to programming or human error or malfeasance. ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. in addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and changing requirements applicable to our business from multiple regulatory agencies at the local, state, federal, or international level, compliance with those requirement could also result in additional costs, or we could fail to comply with those requirements due to various reasons such as not being aware of them. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations and the services we provide to customers or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, reputation and competitive position. in addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasing our self-storage facilities. such events could lead to lost future revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and could result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits, which could be in excess of any available insurance that we have procured. we are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that require us to incur compliance costs affecting our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of u.s. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the sec, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act and nyse , as well as applicable local, state, and national labor laws. although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, restatement of our financial statements and could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations could be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as legislation that could facilitate union activity or that would otherwise increase operating costs. all of our properties must comply with the americans with disabilities act and with related regulations and similar state law requirements, as well as various real estate and zoning laws and regulations, which are subject to change and could become more costly to comply with in the future. compliance with these requirements can require us to incur significant expenditures, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. a failure to comply with these laws could lead to fines or possible awards of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. 18 our tenant re insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state d epartm ents of i nsurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities , or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment , which could reduce our net income .risk factors in addition to the other information in our annual report on form 10-k, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the company. this section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in item 1, business. we have significant exposure to real estate risk. since our business consists primarily of acquiring, developing, and operating real estate, we are subject to risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that could result in reduced revenues, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, or increased borrowings, which could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow available for distribution or reinvestment, and our stock price : 12 natural disasters or terrorist attacks could cause damage to our facilities, resulting in increased costs and reduced revenues. natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist attacks could cause significant damage to our facilities and require significant repair costs, and make facilities temporarily uninhabitable, thereby reducing our revenues. damage and business interruption losses could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage. in addition, because we self-insure a portion of our risks, losses below a certain level may not be covered by insurance. see note 13 to our december 31, 2019 financial statements for a description of the risks of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts. we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack, or such insurance may not be maintained, available or cost-effective. in addition, significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks, threats of future terrorist attacks, or resulting wider armed conflicts could have negative impacts on self-storage demand and/or our revenues. consequences of climate change, including severe weather events, and the steps taken to prevent climate change, could result in increased capital expenditures, increased expenses, and reduced revenues: direct and indirect impacts of climate change, such as increased destructive weather events, fires, reduced lifespans and population reduction, reduced natural habitats, water, food, arable land, and other resources, as well as resulting armed conflicts, could increase our costs or reduce demand for our self-storage facilities. governmental, political, and societal pressure could (i) require costly changes to future newly developed facilities, or require retrofitting of our existing facilities, to reduce carbon emissions through multiple avenues including changes to insulation, space configuration, lighting, heating, and air conditioning, (ii) increase energy costs as a result of switching to less carbon-intensive, but more expensive, sources of energy to operate our facilities, and (iii) result in consumers reducing their individual carbon footprints by owning fewer durable material consumer goods, collectibles, and other such items requiring storage, resulting in a reduced demand for our self-storage space. operating costs, including property taxes, could increase . we could be subject to increases in insurance premiums, property or other taxes, repair and maintenance costs, payroll, utility costs, workers compensation, and other operating expenses due to various factors such as inflation, labor shortages, commodity and energy price increases, weather, increases to minimum wage rates, changes to governmental safety and real estate use limitations, as well as other governmental actions. our property tax expense, which totaled approximately $280.5 million during the year ended december 31, 2019, generally depends upon the assessed value of our real estate facilities as determined by assessors and government agencies, and accordingly could be subject to substantial increases if such agencies changed their valuation approaches or opinions or if new laws are enacted, especially if new approaches are adopted or laws are enacted that result in increased property tax assessments in states or geographies where we have a high concentration of facilities. see also we have exposure to increased property tax in california below. the acquisition of existing properties or self-storage operating companies is subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. we have acquired self-storage facilities from third parties in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. we face significant competition for suitable acquisition properties from other real estate investors. as a result, we may be unable to acquire additional properties we desire or the purchase price for desirable properties may be significantly increased. failures or unexpected circumstances in integrating facilities that we acquire directly or via the acquisition of operating companies into our operations, or circumstances we did not detect or anticipate during due diligence, such as environmental matters, needed repairs or deferred maintenance, customer collection issues, assumed liabilities, turnover of critical personnel involved in acquired operating companies, or the effects of increased property tax following reassessment of a newly-acquired property, as well as the general risks of real estate investment and mergers and acquisitions, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings from an acquisition. development of self-storage facilities can subject us to risks. at december 31, 2019, we have a pipeline of development projects totaling $619.2 million (subject to contingencies), and we expect to continue to seek additional development projects. there are significant risks involved in developing self-storage facilities, such as delays or cost increases due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, failure of revenue to meet our underwriting estimates, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, or personnel problems. self-storage space is generally not pre-leased, and rent-up of newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. 13 there is significant competition among self-storage operators and from other storage alternatives . our self-storage facilities generate most of our revenue and earnings. competition in the local market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates, and operating expenses. development of self-storage facilities has increased in recent years, which has intensified competition and will continue to do so as newly developed facilities are opened. development of self-storage facilities by other operators could continue to increase, due to increases in availability of funds for investment or other reasons, and further intensify competition. our newly developed and expanded facilities, and facilities that we manage for third party owners, may negatively impact the revenues of our existing facilities. we continue to develop new self-storage facilities and expand our existing self-storage facilities. in addition, we are seeking to increase the number of self-storage facilities that we manage for third party owners in exchange for a fee, many of which are in the process of stabilization and are in proximity to our existing stabilized self-storage facilities. in order to hasten the fill-up of these new facilities, we aggressively price such space during the fill-up period. while we believe that this aggressive pricing allows us to increase our market share relative to our competitors and increase the cash flows of these properties, such pricing and the added capacity may also negatively impact our existing stabilized self-storage facilities that are in proximity to these unstabilized facilities. many of our existing self-storage facilities may be at a competitive disadvantage to newly developed facilities. there is a significant level of development of new self-storage facilities, by us and other operators. these newly developed facilities are generally of high quality, with a more fresh and vibrant appearance, more amenities such as climate control, more attractive office configurations, newer elements, and a more imposing and attractive retail presence as compared to many of our existing stabilized self-storage facilities, some of which were built as much as 50 years ago. such qualitative differentials may negatively impact our ability to compete with these facilities for new tenants and our existing tenants may move to newly developed facilities. we may incur significant liabilities from environmental contamination or moisture infiltration . existing or future laws impose or may impose liability on us to clean up environmental contamination on or around properties that we currently or previously owned or operated, even if we were not responsible for or aware of the environmental contamination or even if such environmental contamination occurred prior to our involvement with the property. we have conducted preliminary environmental assessments on most of our properties, which have not identified any material liabilities. these assessments, commonly referred to as phase 1 environmental assessments, include an investigation (excluding soil or groundwater sampling or analysis) and a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other nearby properties. we are also subject to potential liability relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other damage to our or our customers' property, as well as potential health concerns. when we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our customers to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. we are not aware of any environmental contamination or moisture infiltration related liabilities that could be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operation. however, we may not have detected all material liabilities, we could acquire properties with material undetected liabilities, or new conditions could arise or develop at our properties, any of which could result in a cash settlement or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. economic conditions can adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. our revenues and operating cash flow can be negatively impacted by reductions in employment and population levels, household and disposable income, and other general economic factors that lead to a reduction in demand for rental space in each of the markets in which we operate. our ability to raise capital to fund our activities may be adversely affected by challenging market conditions. in periods when the capital and credit markets experience significant volatility, the amounts, sources, and cost of 14 capital available to us may be adversely affected. if we were unable to raise capital at reasonable rates, prospective earnings growth through expanding our asset base could be limited. we have exposure to european operations through our ownership in shurgard. we own approximately 35% of the common shares of shurgard, and this investment has a $339.9 million book value and a $1.2 billion market value (based upon the closing trading price of shurgard's common stock) at december 31, 2019. we recognized $15.5 million in equity in earnings, and received $23.1 million in dividends, in 2019, with respect to shurgard. shurgard, as an owner, operator, and developer of self-storage facilities, is subject to many of the same risks we are with respect to self-storage. however, through our investment in shurgard, we are exposed to additional risks unique to the various european markets shurgard operates in which may adversely impact our business and financial results, many of which are referred to in shurgard's public filings. these risks include the following: currency risks: currency fluctuations can impact the fair value of our investment in shurgard, our equity earnings, our ongoing dividends, and any other related repatriations of cash. legislative, tax, and regulatory risks: shurgard is subject to a variety of local, national, and pan european laws and regulations related to permitting and land use, the environment, labor, and other areas, as well as income, property, sales, value added and employment tax laws. these laws can be difficult to apply or interpret and can vary in each country or locality, and are subject to unexpected changes in their form and application due to regional, national, or local political uncertainty and other factors. such changes, or shurgard's failure to comply with these laws, could subject it to penalties or other sanctions, adverse changes in business processes, as well as potentially adverse income tax, property tax, or other tax burdens. impediments to capital repatriation could negatively impact the realization of our investment in shurgard: laws in europe and the u.s. may create, impede, or increase our cost to repatriate distributions received from shurgard or proceeds from the sale of shurgard's shares. risks of collective bargaining and intellectual property: collective bargaining, which is prevalent in certain areas in europe, could negatively impact shurgard's labor costs or operations. many of shurgard's employees participate in various national unions. potential operating and individual country risks: economic slowdowns or extraordinary political or social change in the countries in which it operates have posed, and could continue to pose, challenges or result in future reductions of shurgard's operating cash flows. liquidity of our ownership stake: we have no plans to liquidate our interest in shurgard. however, while shurgard is a publicly held entity, if we chose to, our ability to liquidate our shares in shurgard in an efficient manner could be limited by the level of shurgard's public float relative to any ownership stake we sought to sell. our existing relationship with our legacy joint venture partner may place further contractual limitations on our ability to sell all of the shares we own if we desired to do so. impediments of shurgard's public ownership structure: shurgard's strategic decisions, involving activities such as borrowing money, capital contributions, raising capital from third parties, as well as selling or acquiring significant assets, are determined by its board of directors. as a result, shurgard may be precluded from taking advantage of opportunities that we would find attractive but that we may not be able to pursue economically separately, or it could take actions that we do not agree with. 15 we have exposure to commercial property risk through our ownership in psb. we own approximately 42% of the common equity of psb, and this investment has a $427.9 million book value and a $2.4 billion market value (based upon the closing trading price of psb's common stock) at december 31, 2019. we recognized $54.1 million in equity in earnings, and received $60.7 million in dividends, in 2019, with respect to psb. psb, as an owner, operator, and developer of real estate, is subject to many of the same risks we are with respect to real estate. however, we may be exposed to other risks as a result of psb's ownership specifically of commercial facilities. these risks are set forth in psb's form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2019, under item 1a. risk factors . the hughes family could significantly influence us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. at december 31, 2019, b. wayne hughes, our former chairman and his family, which includes his daughter, tamara hughes gustavson and his son, b. wayne hughes, jr., who are both members of our board of trustees (collectively, the hughes family ), owned approximately 14.1% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. our declaration of trust permits the hughes family to own up to 35.66% of our outstanding common shares while it generally restricts the ownership by other persons and entities to 3% of our outstanding common shares unless our board of trustees grants an ownership waiver, as has occurred in certain cases for large mutual fund companies. consequently, the hughes family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, which may result in an outcome that may not be favorable to other shareholders. takeover attempts or changes in control could be thwarted, even if beneficial to shareholders. in certain circumstances, shareholders might desire a change of control or acquisition of us, in order to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares or for other reasons. however, the following could prevent, deter, or delay such a transaction: provisions of maryland law may impose limitations that may make it more difficult for a third party to negotiate or effect a business combination transaction or control share acquisition with public storage. currently, the board has opted not to subject the company to these provisions of maryland law, but it could choose to do so in the future without shareholder approval. to protect against the loss of our reit status due to concentration of ownership levels, our declaration of trust generally limits the ability of a person, other than the hughes family or designated investment entities (each as defined in our declaration of trust), to own, actually or constructively, more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares. our board may grant, and has previously granted, a specific exemption. these limits could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the company not approved by our board. similarly, current provisions of our declaration of trust and powers of our board could have the same effect, including (1) limitations on removal of trustees, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares on terms approved by the board without obtaining shareholder approval, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the board's ability under maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control. 16 if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay substantial income taxes. reits are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. a qualifying reit does not generally incur federal income tax on its net income that is distributed to its shareholders. our reit status is also dependent upon the ongoing reit qualification of psb as a result of our substantial ownership interest in it. we believe we have qualified as a reit and we intend to continue to maintain our reit status. there can be no assurance that we qualify or will continue to qualify as a reit, because of the highly technical nature of the reit rules, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, the possibility of unidentified issues in prior periods, or changes in our circumstances, as well as share ownership limits in our articles of incorporation that do not necessarily ensure that our shareholder base is sufficiently diverse for us to qualify as a reit. for any year we fail to qualify as a reit, unless certain relief provisions apply (the granting of such relief could nonetheless result in significant excise or penalty taxes), we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid, we would be subject to corporate tax on our taxable income, and generally we would not be allowed to elect reit status until the fifth year after such a disqualification. any taxes, interest, and penalties incurred would reduce our cash available for distributions to shareholders and could negatively affect our stock price. however, for years in which we failed to qualify as a reit, we would not be subject to reit rules that require us to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders. holders of our preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock. holders of our preferred shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common stock. upon liquidation, holders of our preferred shares will receive a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (or $25.00 per depositary share) plus any accrued and unpaid distributions before any payment is made to the common shareholders. these preferences may limit the amount received by our common shareholders either from ongoing distributions or upon liquidation. in addition, our preferred shareholders have the right to elect two additional directors to our board whenever dividends are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. we are increasingly dependent upon google to source our customers. approximately 59% of our new storage customers in 2019 were sourced directly or indirectly through unpaid search and paid search campaigns on google. we believe that the vast majority of customers searching for self-storage use google at some stage in their shopping experience. google is providing tools to allow smaller and less sophisticated operators to bid for search terms, increasing competition for self-storage search terms. the predominance of google in the shopping experience, as well as google's enabling of additional competitors to bid for placements in self-storage search terms, may reduce the number of new customers that we can procure, and/or increase our costs to obtain new customers. preferred shareholders are subject to certain risks. holders of our preferred shares have preference rights over our common shareholders with respect to liquidation and distributions, which give them some assurance of continued payment of their stated dividend rate, and receipt of their principal upon liquidation of the company or redemption of their securities. however, holders of our preferred shares should consider the following risks: the company has in the past, and could in the future, issue or assume additional debt. preferred shareholders would be subordinated to the interest and principal payments of such debt, which would increase the risk that there would not be sufficient funds to pay distributions or liquidation amounts to the preferred shareholders. 17 the company has in the past, and could in the future, issue additional preferred shares that, while pari passu to the existing preferred shares, increases the risk that there would not be sufficient funds to pay distributions to the preferred shareholders. while the company has no plans to do so, if the company were to lose its reit status or no longer elect reit status, it would no longer be required to distribute its taxable income to maintain reit status. if, in such a circumstance, the company ceased paying dividends, unpaid distributions to the preferred shareholders would continue to accumulate. the preferred shareholders would have the ability to elect two additional members to serve on our board of trustees until the arrearage was cured. the preferred shareholders would not receive any compensation (such as interest) for the delay in the receipt of distributions, and it is possible that the arrearage could accumulate indefinitely. changes in tax laws could negatively impact us. the united states treasury department and congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance. we cannot predict whether, when, or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect taxation of us or our shareholders. changes made by the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcja ), signed into law on december 22, 2017, limit our ability to deduct compensation in excess of $1 million paid to certain senior executives. this could require us to increase distributions to our shareholders in the future in order to avoid paying tax and to maintain our reit status. we may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. since january 1, 2001, certain consolidated corporate subsidiaries of the company have elected to be treated as taxable reit subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. if tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable reit subsidiaries to us are not reasonable compared to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. to the extent the company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes thereto, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. in addition, certain local and state governments have imposed taxes on self-storage rent. while in most cases those taxes are paid by our customers, they increase the cost of self-storage rental to our customers and can negatively impact our revenues. other local and state governments may impose self-storage rent taxes in the future. we have exposure to increased property tax in california. approximately $580 million of our 2019 net operating income is from our properties in california, and we incurred approximately $42 million in related property tax expense. due to the impact of proposition 13, which generally limits increases in assessed values to 2% per year, the assessed value and resulting property tax we pay is less than it would be if the properties were assessed at current values. from time to time, proposals have been made to reduce the beneficial impact of proposition 13, particularly with respect to commercial and industrial (non-residential) real estate, which would include self-storage facilities. in late 2018, an initiative qualified for california's november 2020 statewide ballot that would create a split roll, generally making proposition 13's protections only applicable to residential real estate. the sponsors of the original initiative are attempting to qualify a revised proposal that has a similar impact in terms of property taxes, but may have a higher change of passage. if the revised initiative is qualified, it will replace the first initiative on the november 2020 ballot. if the original or replacement initiative were to be adopted, it would end the beneficial effect of proposition 13 for our properties, and our property tax expense could increase substantially, adversely affecting our cash flow from operations and net income. 18 we cannot predict whether (i) the revised initiative will qualify to replace the first qualified initiative, (ii) the initiative that ends up on the november 2020 ballot will pass or (iii) other changes to proposition 13 may be proposed or adopted in the future. we are exposed to ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions, which may divert management's time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business. we have over 5,900 employees, more than 1.4 million customers, and we conduct business at facilities with 169 million net rentable square feet of storage space. as a result, we are subject to the risk of legal claims and proceedings (including class actions) and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of our business and otherwise, and we could incur significant liabilities and substantial legal fees as a result of these actions. resolution of these claims and actions may divert time and attention by our management could involve payment of damages or expenses by us, all of which may be significant, and could damage our reputation and our brand. in addition, any such resolution could involve our agreement to terms that restrict the operation of our business. the results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. we cannot guarantee losses incurred in connection with any current or future legal or regulatory proceedings or actions will not exceed any provisions we may have set aside in respect of such proceedings or actions or will not exceed any available insurance coverage. the impact of any such legal claims, proceedings, and regulatory enforcement actions and could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow available for distribution or reinvestment, and/or the price of our common shares. in addition, through exercising their authority to regulate our activities, governmental agencies can otherwise negatively impact our business by increasing costs or decreasing revenues. we are heavily dependent on computer systems, telecommunications and the internet to process transactions, make payments, summarize results and manage our business. the failure or disruption of our computer and communications systems could significantly harm our business . we are heavily dependent upon automated information technology and internet commerce, with more than half of our new customers coming from the telephone or over the internet. we centrally manage significant components of our operations with our computer systems, including our financial information, and we also rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions and provide other systems services. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, hackers, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive security breaches and catastrophic events. such incidents could also result in significant costs to repair or replace such networks or information systems, as well as actual monetary losses in case of a breach that resulted in fraudulent payments or other cash transactions. as a result, our operations could be severely impacted by a natural disaster, terrorist attack, attack by hackers, acts of vandalism, data theft, misplaced or lost data, programming or human error, or other circumstance that results in a significant outage of our systems or those of our third party providers, despite our use of back up and redundancy measures. if our confidential information is compromised or corrupted, including as a result of a cybersecurity breach, our reputation and business relationships could be damaged, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. in the ordinary course of our business we acquire and store sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our prospective and current customers and our employees. the secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. although we believe we have taken commercially reasonable steps to protect the security of our confidential information, information security risks have generally increased in recent years due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyberattacks. despite our security measures, we have experienced security breaches due to cyberattacks and additional breaches could occur in the future. in these cases, our information technology and infrastructure could be vulnerable and our or our customers' or employees' confidential information could be compromised or misappropriated. any such breach could result in serious and harmful consequences for us or our tenants. our confidential information may also be compromised due to programming or human error or malfeasance. 19 we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes to address the evolving threat landscape, and therefore there is no guarantee that they will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches or misuses of data. in addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and changing requirements applicable to our business from multiple regulatory agencies at the local, state, federal, or international level, compliance with those requirement could also result in additional costs, or we could fail to comply with those requirements due to various reasons such as not being aware of them. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption to our operations and the services we provide to customers or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, reputation and competitive position. in addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue leasing our self-storage facilities. such events could lead to lost future revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and could result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits, which could be in excess of any available insurance that we have procured. we are subject to california's new privacy law which will require us to incur compliance costs and may subject us to litigation that may affect our operating results and financial condition. the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa ) went into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires, among other things, companies that collect personal information about california residents to make new disclosures to those residents about their data collection, use and sharing practices, allows residents to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. however, regulations from the california attorney general have not been finalized, and it is expected that additional amendments to the ccpa will be introduced in 2020. it therefore remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to the ccpa or how it will be interpreted. while we believe we have developed processes to comply with ccpa requirements, a regulatory agency may not agree with certain of our implementation decisions, which could subject us to litigation, regulatory actions or changes to our business practices that could increase costs or reduce revenues. other states have also considered or are considering privacy laws similar to the ccpa. similar laws may be implemented in other jurisdictions that we do business in and in ways that may be more restrictive than the ccpa, increasing the cost of compliance, as well as the risk of noncompliance, on our business. our tenant reinsurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. we hold limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. our continued ability to maintain these limited lines self-service storage insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. as a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from continuing some or all of our reinsurance activities , or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment, which could reduce our net income.