risk factors k 13 risk factors we are subject to significant governmental legislation and regulation over commercial, operating and environmental matters. railroads are subject to the enactment of laws by congress that could increase economic regulation of the industry. railroads presently are subject to commercial regulation by the surface transportation board (stb), which has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, fuel surcharges, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. the stb also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger, or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. additional economic regulation of the rail industry by congress or the stb, whether under new or existing laws, could have a significant negative impact on our ability to determine prices for rail services and result in a material adverse effect in the future on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. this potential material adverse effect could also result in reduced capital spending on our rail network or abandonment of lines. railroads are subject to safety and security regulation by the u.s. department of transportation and the u.s. department of homeland security, which regulate most aspects of our operations. compliance with the rail safety improvement act of 2008 will result in additional operating costs associated with the statutorily mandated implementation of positive train control by 2015. in addition to increased capital expenditures, implementation may result in reduced operational efficiency and service levels, as well as increased compensation and benefits expenses, and increased claims and litigation costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal and state environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waterways or groundwater supplies; handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and other materials; and the cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases. the risk of incurring environmental liability for acts and omissions, past, present, and future is inherent in the railroad business. this risk includes property owned by us, whether currently or in the past, that is or has been subject to a variety of uses, including our railroad operations and other industrial activity by past owners or our past and present tenants. environmental problems that are latent or undisclosed may exist on these properties, and we could incur environmental liabilities or costs, the amount and materiality of which cannot be estimated reliably at this time, with respect to one or more of these properties. moreover, lawsuits and claims involving other unidentified environmental sites and matters are likely to arise from time to time, and the resulting liabilities could have a significant effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. as a common carrier by rail, we must offer to transport hazardous materials, regardless of risk. transportation of certain hazardous materials could create catastrophic losses in terms of personal injury and property (including environmental) damage, and compromise critical parts of our rail network. a catastrophic rail accident involving hazardous materials could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of k 13 operations, or liquidity to the extent not covered by insurance. we have obtained insurance for potential losses for third-party liability and first-party property damages; however, insurance is available from a limited number of insurers and may not continue to be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. we may be affected by terrorism or war. any terrorist attack, or other similar event, any government response thereto, and war or risk of war could cause significant business interruption and may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. because we play a critical role in the nation's transportation system, we could become the target of such an attack or have a significant role in the government's preemptive approach or response to an attack or war. although we currently maintain insurance coverage for third-party liability arising out of war and acts of terrorism, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for first-party property damage and damage to property in our care, custody, or control caused by certain acts of terrorism. in addition, premiums for some or all of our current insurance programs covering these losses could increase dramatically, or insurance coverage for certain losses could be unavailable to us in the future. we may be affected by general economic conditions. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions affecting the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. economic conditions resulting in bankruptcies of one or more large customers could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter, we may be affected by energy prices. volatility in energy prices could have an effect on a variety of items including, but not limited to: the economy; demand for transportation services; business related to the energy sector, including crude and natural gas; fuel prices; and fuel surcharges. any of these items could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. we may be affected by climate change legislation or regulation. concern over climate change has led to significant federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, government incentives and adverse publicity relating to ghgs could affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry. restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on ghg emissions, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs, decrease the amount of traffic handled, and decrease the value of coal reserves we own, and thus could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. such restrictions could affect our customers that (1) use commodities that we carry to produce energy, including coal, (2) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (3) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy. we face competition from other transportation providers. we are subject to competition from motor carriers, railroads and, to a lesser extent, ships, barges, and pipelines, on the basis of transit time, pricing, and quality and reliability of service. while we have used primarily internal resources to build or acquire and maintain our rail system, trucks and barges have been able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the regions in which we operate, or legislation granting materially greater latitude for motor carriers with respect to size or weight limitations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. the operations of carriers with which we interchange may adversely affect our operations. our ability to provide rail service to customers in the u.s. and canada depends in large part upon our ability to maintain cooperative relationships with connecting carriers with respect to, among other matters, freight rates, revenue division, car supply and locomotive availability, data exchange and communications, reciprocal switching, interchange, and trackage rights. deterioration in the operations of or service provided by connecting carriers, or in k 14 our relationship with those connecting carriers, could result in our inability to meet our customers' demands or require us to use alternate train routes, which could result in significant additional costs and network inefficiencies. we rely on technology and technology improvements in our business operations. if we experience significant disruption or failure of one or more of our information technology systems, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could experience a service interruption, a security breach, or other operational difficulties. additionally, if we do not have sufficient capital to acquire new technology or we are unable to implement new technology, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. the vast majority of our employees belong to labor unions, and labor agreements, strikes, or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. more than 80% of our railroad employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. if unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could significantly increase our costs for healthcare, wages, and other benefits. any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters. job-related personal injury and occupational claims are subject to the federal employer's liability act (fela), which is applicable only to railroads. fela's fault-based tort system produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a no-fault worker's compensation system. the variability inherent in this system could result in actual costs being very different from the liability recorded. any material changes to current litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident involving any or all of freight loss property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity to the extent not covered by insurance. we have obtained insurance for potential losses for third-party liability and first-party property damages. specified levels of risk are retained on a self-insurance basis (currently up to $50 million and above $1.2 billion per occurrence and/or policy year for bodily injury and property damage to third parties and up to $25 million and above $200 million per occurrence and/or policy year for property owned by us or in our care, custody, or control). insurance is available from a limited number of insurers and may not continue to be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. severe weather could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures. severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including hurricanes, floods, fires, and earthquakes, may cause significant business interruptions and result in increased costs, increased liabilities, and decreased revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. unpredictability of demand for rail services resulting in the unavailability of qualified personnel could adversely affect our operational efficiency and ability to meet demand. workforce demographics, training requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel, particularly engineers and trainmen, could each have a negative impact on our ability to meet demand for rail service. unpredictable increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on our operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. we may be affected by supply constraints resulting from disruptions in the fuel markets or the nature of some of our supplier markets. we consumed 494 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2014. fuel availability could be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. a severe fuel supply shortage arising from production curtailments, increased demand in existing or emerging k 15 foreign markets, disruption of oil imports, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. also, such an event could impact us as well as our customers and other transportation companies. due to the capital intensive nature, as well as the industry-specific requirements of the rail industry, high barriers of entry exist for potential new suppliers of core railroad items, such as locomotives and rolling stock equipment. additionally, we compete with other industries for available capacity and raw materials used in the production of locomotives and certain track and rolling stock materials. changes in the competitive landscapes of these limited-supplier markets could result in increased prices or significant shortages of materials that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. the state of capital markets could adversely affect our liquidity. from time-to-time we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements, including the issuance of long-term debt instruments and commercial paper, as well as the sale of certain receivables. significant instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or eliminate our access to, and/or significantly increase the cost of, various financing sources, including bank credit facilities and issuance of corporate bonds. instability or disruptions of the capital markets and deterioration of our financial condition, alone or in combination, could also result in a reduction in our credit rating to below investment grade, which could prohibit or restrict us from accessing external sources of short- and long-term debt financing and/or significantly increase the associated costs.