risk factors k 11 risk factors and the safety and security of our railroads are discussed within the security of operations section contained herein. competition there is continuing strong competition among rail, water, and highway carriers. price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling, and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are also important considerations, especially for higher-valued finished goods, machinery, and consumer products. even for raw materials, semi-finished goods, and work-in-progress, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements that minimize problems at successive production stages. our primary rail competitor is csx corporation (csx); both railroads operate throughout much of the same territory. other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. we also compete with motor carriers, water carriers, and with shippers who have the additional options of handling their own goods in private carriage, sourcing products from different geographic areas, and using substitute products. certain marketing strategies to expand reach and shipping options among railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable railroads to compete more effectively in specific markets. security of operations we continue to take measures to enhance the security of our rail system. our comprehensive security plan is modeled on and was developed in conjunction with the security plan prepared by the k 10 association of american railroads (aar) post september 11, 2001. the aar security plan defines four alert levels and details the actions and countermeasures that are being applied across the railroad industry as a terrorist threat increases or decreases. the alert level actions include countermeasures that will be applied in three general areas: (1) operations (including transportation, engineering, and mechanical); (2) information technology and communications; and, (3) railroad police. all of our operations division employees are advised by their supervisors or train dispatchers, as appropriate, of any change in alert level and any additional responsibilities they may incur due to such change. our plan also complies with u.s. department of transportation (dot) security regulations pertaining to training and security plans with respect to the transportation of hazardous materials. as part of the plan, security awareness training is given to all railroad employees who directly affect hazardous material transportation safety, and is integrated into hazardous material training programs. additionally, location-specific security plans are in place for certain metropolitan areas and each of the six port facilities we serve. with respect to the ports, each facility ' s security plan has been approved by the applicable captain of the port and remains subject to inspection by the u.s. coast guard (uscg). additionally, we continue to engage in close and regular coordination with numerous federal and state agencies, including the u.s. department of homeland security (dhs), the transportation security administration, the federal bureau of investigation, the federal railroad administration (fra), the uscg, u.s. customs and border protection, and various state homeland security offices. similarly, we follow guidance from dhs and dot regarding rail corridors in high threat urban areas (htua). particular attention is aimed at reducing risk in htua by: (1) the establishment of secure storage areas for rail cars carrying toxic-by-inhalation (tih) materials; (2) the expedited movement of trains transporting rail cars carrying tih materials; (3) substantially reducing the number of unattended loaded tank cars carrying tih materials; and (4) cooperation with federal, state, local, and tribal governments to identify those locations where security risks are the highest. in 2016, through participation in the transportation community awareness and emergency response (transcaer) program, we provided rail accident response training to approximately 5,573 emergency responders, such as local police and fire personnel. our other training efforts throughout 2016 included participation in drills for local, state, and federal agencies. we also have ongoing programs to sponsor local emergency responders at the security and emergency response training course conducted at the aar transportation technology center in pueblo, colorado. item 1a. risk factors the risks set forth in the following risk factors could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter, and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. the information set forth in this item 1a. risk factors should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this annual report, including item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. significant governmental legislation and regulation over commercial, operating and environmental matters could affect us, our customers, and the markets we serve. congress can enact laws that could increase economic regulation of the industry. railroads presently are subject to commercial regulation by the stb, which has jurisdiction to varying extents over rates, routes, customer access provisions, fuel surcharges, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. the stb also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger, or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. additional economic regulation of the rail industry by congress or the stb, whether under new or existing laws, could have a significant negative impact on our ability to determine prices for rail services and on the efficiency of our operations. this potential material adverse effect could also result in reduced capital spending on our rail network or abandonment of lines. k 11 railroads are also subject to the enactment of laws by congress and regulation by the dot and the dhs (which regulate most aspects of our operations) related to safety and security. the rail safety improvement act of 2008 (rsia), the surface transportation extension act of 2015, and the implementing regulations promulgated by the fra require us and each other class i railroad to implement an interoperable positive train control system (ptc) on certain of our respective lines by december 31, 2018. full implementation of ptc in compliance with rsia will result in additional operating costs and capital expenditures, and ptc implementation may result in reduced operational efficiency and service levels, as well as increased compensation and benefits expenses, and increased claims and litigation costs. our operations are subject to extensive federal and state environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waterways or groundwater supplies; handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and other materials; and the cleanup of hazardous material or petroleum releases. the risk of incurring environmental liability, for acts and omissions, past, present, and future, is inherent in the railroad business. this risk includes property owned by us, whether currently or in the past, that is or has been subject to a variety of uses, including our railroad operations and other industrial activity by past owners or our past and present tenants. environmental problems that are latent or undisclosed may exist on these properties, and we could incur environmental liabilities or costs, the amount and materiality of which cannot be estimated reliably at this time, with respect to one or more of these properties. moreover, lawsuits and claims involving other unidentified environmental sites and matters are likely to arise from time to time. concern over climate change has led to significant federal, state, and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on ghg emissions, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs, decrease the amount of traffic handled, and decrease the value of coal reserves we own. in addition, legislation and regulation could negatively affect the markets we serve and our customers, including those related to ghgs. even without legislation or regulation, government incentives and adverse publicity relating to ghgs could negatively affect the markets for certain of the commodities we carry and our customers that (1) use commodities that we carry to produce energy, including coal, (2) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (3) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy. as a common carrier by rail, we must offer to transport hazardous materials, regardless of risk. transportation of certain hazardous materials could create catastrophic losses in terms of personal injury and property (including environmental) damage, and compromise critical parts of our rail network. the cost of a catastrophic rail accident involving hazardous materials could exceed our insurance coverage. we have obtained insurance for potential losses for third-party liability and first-party property damages (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements); however, insurance is available from a limited number of insurers and may not continue to be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. we may be affected by general economic conditions. prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions could affect the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry. economic conditions could also result in bankruptcies of one or more large customers. significant increases in demand for rail services could result in the unavailability of qualified personnel and locomotives. in addition, workforce demographics and training requirements, particularly for engineers and conductors, could have a negative impact on our ability to meet demand for rail service. unpredicted increases in demand for rail services may exacerbate such risks. k 12 we may be affected by energy prices. volatility in energy prices could have a significant effect on a variety of items including, but not limited to: the economy; demand for transportation services; business related to the energy sector, including crude oil, natural gas, and coal; fuel prices; and fuel surcharges. we face competition from other transportation providers. we are subject to competition from motor carriers, railroads and, to a lesser extent, ships, barges, and pipelines, on the basis of transit time, pricing, and quality and reliability of service. while we have used primarily internal resources to build or acquire and maintain our rail system, trucks and barges have been able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. any future improvements, expenditures, legislation, or regulation materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation in the regions in which we operate (such as granting materially greater latitude for motor carriers with respect to size or weight limitations or adoption of autonomous commercial vehicles) could have a material adverse effect on our operations. the operations of carriers with which we interchange may adversely affect our operations. our ability to provide rail service to customers in the u.s. and canada depends in large part upon our ability to maintain collaborative relationships with connecting carriers (including shortlines and regional railroads) with respect to, among other matters, freight rates, revenue division, car supply and locomotive availability, data exchange and communications, reciprocal switching, interchange, and trackage rights. deterioration in the operations of or service provided by connecting carriers, or in our relationship with those connecting carriers, could result in our inability to meet our customers' demands or require us to use alternate train routes, which could result in significant additional costs and network inefficiencies. additionally, any significant consolidations, mergers or operational changes among other railroads may significantly redefine our market access and reach. we rely on technology and technology improvements in our business operations. if we experience significant disruption or failure of one or more of our information technology systems, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could experience a service interruption, a security breach, or other operational difficulties. accordingly, we also face cybersecurity threats which may result in breaches of systems, or compromises of sensitive data, which may result in an inability to access or operate systems necessary for conducting operations and providing customer service, thereby impacting our efficiency and/or damaging our corporate reputation. additionally, if we do not have sufficient capital to acquire new technology or we are unable to implement new technology, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service. the vast majority of our employees belong to labor unions, and labor agreements, strikes, or work stoppages could adversely affect our operations. approximately 80% of our railroad employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. if unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could significantly increase our costs for healthcare, wages, and other benefits. we may be subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures. the nature of our business exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, commercial disputes, freight loss and other property damage, and other matters. job-related personal injury and occupational claims are subject to the federal employer's liability act (fela), which is applicable only to railroads. fela's fault-based tort system produces results that are unpredictable and inconsistent as compared with a no-fault worker's compensation system. the variability inherent in this system could result in actual costs being very different from the liability recorded. any material changes to current litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident involving any or all of freight loss property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on us to the extent not covered by insurance. we have obtained insurance for potential losses for third-party liability and first-party property damages (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements); however, insurance is available k 13 from a limited number of insurers and may not continue to be available or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms acceptable to us. severe weather could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures. severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including hurricanes, floods, fires, and earthquakes, may cause significant business interruptions and result in increased costs, increased liabilities, and decreased revenues. we may be affected by terrorism or war. any terrorist attack, or other similar event, any government response thereto, and war or risk of war could cause significant business interruption. because we play a critical role in the nation's transportation system, we could become the target of such an attack or have a significant role in the government's preemptive approach or response to an attack or war. although we currently maintain insurance coverage for third-party liability arising out of war and acts of terrorism, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for first-party property damage and damage to property in our care, custody, or control caused by certain acts of terrorism. in addition, premiums for some or all of our current insurance programs covering these losses could increase dramatically, or insurance coverage for certain losses could be unavailable to us in the future. we may be affected by supply constraints resulting from disruptions in the fuel markets or the nature of some of our supplier markets. we consumed approximately 462 million gallons of diesel fuel in 2016. fuel availability could be affected by any limitation in the fuel supply or by any imposition of mandatory allocation or rationing regulations. a severe fuel supply shortage arising from production curtailments, increased demand in existing or emerging foreign markets, disruption of oil imports, disruption of domestic refinery production, damage to refinery or pipeline infrastructure, political unrest, war or other factors could impact us as well as our customers and other transportation companies. due to the capital intensive nature, as well as the industry-specific requirements of the rail industry, high barriers of entry exist for potential new suppliers of core railroad items, such as locomotives and rolling stock equipment. additionally, we compete with other industries for available capacity and raw materials used in the production of locomotives and certain track and rolling stock materials. changes in the competitive landscapes of these limited supplier markets could result in increased prices or significant shortages of materials. the state of capital markets could adversely affect our liquidity. from time-to-time we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements, including the issuance of long-term debt instruments and commercial paper, as well as the sale of certain receivables. significant instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or eliminate our access to, and/or significantly increase the cost of, various financing sources, including bank credit facilities and issuance of corporate bonds. instability or disruptions of the capital markets and deterioration of our financial condition, alone or in combination, could also result in a reduction in our credit rating to below investment grade, which could prohibit or restrict us from accessing external sources of short- and long-term debt financing and/or significantly increase the associated costs.