quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources - market risks" in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed due to changes in interest rates, the return on marketable equity securities, foreign currency exchange rates and the price of commodities.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks" in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 68quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks" in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 76risk factors our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to the regulation of the pscw as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to the regulation of the mpsc as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except as to issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates. further, wisconsin electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by the ferc, and the ferc also regulates our wholesale power service and accounting practices. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 87% of our electric revenues are regulated by the pscw, 8% are regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues are regulated by the ferc. all of our natural gas revenues are regulated by the pscw. our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to maintain our current authorized rates of return. factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of the natural gas-fired and coal-fired generating units we are constructing as part of our power the future strategy. under our power the future strategy, we expect to meet a significant portion of our future generation needs through the construction of two 545-megawatt natural gas-fired generating units at our port washington generating station and two 615-megawatt coal-fired generating units to be located adjacent to our oak creek power plant. the first of these four units was placed into service in july 2005. large construction projects of this type are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the inability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, strikes, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner and changes in applicable law or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by the permitting agencies, governmental actions and events in the global economy. if final costs for the construction of the port washington units exceed the fixed costs allowed in the pscw order, absent a finding by the pscw of extraordinary circumstances such as force majeure conditions, this excess will not adjust the amount of the lease payments recovered from wisconsin electric. if final costs of the oak creek expansion are within 5% of the targeted cost, and the additional costs are deemed prudent by the pscw, the final lease payments for the oak creek expansion recovered from wisconsin electric would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs. costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the pscw of extraordinary circumstances such as force majeure conditions. as required by the energy policy act, ferc developed new rules to implement certain provisions of the energy policy act. pursuant to these new rules, wisconsin electric is required to seek ferc authorization to lease from we power the three power the future units that are currently being constructed by we power. we are unable to determine at this time the magnitude of this new regulatory requirement on the power the future plan, if any. we face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. we are subject to extensive environmental regulations relating to, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, small particulates and mercury, water discharges and management of hazardous and solid waste. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. 23 existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted which could result in significant additional expenditures and operating restrictions on our facilities. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, we may also be responsible for liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. the incurrence of a material environmental liability could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ownership and operation of nuclear generating units involve inherent risks that may result in substantial costs and liabilities. we own two 518-megawatt nuclear electric generating units at the point beach site. the units are operated by nmc, a joint venture of wisconsin energy and affiliates of other unaffiliated utilities. during 2005, our nuclear generating units provided 20% of our net electric energy supply. our nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including: handling of nuclear materials, on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel and the current lack of a long-term solution for disposal of materials; mechanical or structural problems; lapses in maintenance procedures; human errors in the operation of the reactors or safety systems; the threat of possible terrorist attacks; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; the continued ability of nmc to effectively manage and operate our nuclear facilities; and uncertainties regarding our ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning the units. while we have no reason to anticipate a ser ious nuclear incident at our units, if an incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to us that may significantly exceed the amount of our insurance coverage and reserves. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, until compliance is achieved. further, in the event of a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world, the nrc could limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. as a result of the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the nrc and the industry have been strengthening security at nuclear power plants. increased security measures and other safety requirements could require us to make substantial capital expenditures at our nuclear generating units. energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. below normal temperatures during the summer cooling season, and to a lesser extent, above normal temperatures during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, above normal temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. higher natural gas costs may negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. significant increases in the cost of natural gas affect our electric and gas utility operations. natural gas costs have increased significantly, both because the supply of natural gas in recent years has not kept pace with the demand for natural gas, which has grown throughout the united states as a result of increased reliance on natural gas-fired electric generating facilities, and due to the impacts of hurricanes on offshore gulf of mexico natural gas production. we expect that demand for natural gas will remain high into the foreseeable future and that significant price relief will not occur until additional natural gas reserves are developed. wisconsin electric's electric operations burn natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in the leased port washington generation station unit 1 and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants, and in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. in addition, higher natural gas costs also can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of these fuels as well. 24 in addition, higher natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. as a result of gas cost recovery mechanisms, our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar pass through of the cost of natural gas. however, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins. we have experienced reduced usage of natural gas by our residential customers in 2005 and expect this to continue during the 2006 winter heating season. in addition, higher natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions also exposes us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to obtain additional megawatt hour purchases through other potentially higher cost generating resources in the miso midwest market. higher costs to obtain coal increase our working capital requirements. our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. unplanned generation outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve. in the event regional economic conditions decline, we may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas which could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. in addition, regional economic conditions also impact our collections of accounts receivable. our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements. we and our subsidiaries have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities, preferred stock and common stock. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon the ability of us and our subsidiaries to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. if our or our subsidiaries' access to the capital markets were limited due to a ratings downgrade, prevailing market conditions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly adversely affected. we are a holding company and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. wisconsin energy is a holding company and has no significant operations of its own. accordingly, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. our subsidiaries have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas bank back-up credit facilities have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. 25 provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility activities. under the public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. in addition, the wisconsin utility holding company act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, stockholders and the public. this provision and other requirements of the wisconsin utility holding company act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, you may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. repeal of the public utility holding company act of 1935 and enactment of the public utility holding company act of 2005 may subject us to increased regulation. wisconsin energy and wisconsin electric were exempt holding companies under puhca 1935, and, accordingly, were exempt from that law's provisions other than with respect to certain acquisitions of securities of a public utility. however, the energy policy act repealed puhca 1935 and enacted puhca 2005, transferring jurisdiction over holding companies from the sec to the ferc. each of wisconsin energy and wisconsin electric will be required to notify the ferc of its status as a holding company and to seek from ferc the exempt status similar to that held under puhca 1935. if wisconsin energy and wisconsin electric are unable to obtain exempt status from ferc, both companies may become subject to increased regulation as holding companies by ferc. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. the timeline for restructuring and retail access continues to be stretched out, and it is uncertain when retail access will happen in wisconsin; however, michigan has adopted retail choice which potentially affects our michigan operations. under retail access legislation, customers are permitted to choose their own electric generation supplier. all michigan electric customers were able to choose their electric generation supplier beginning in january 2002. although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in our service territories in michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. the ferc continues to support the existing rtos which affect the structure of the wholesale market within those rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented the miso midwest market on april 1, 2005. the miso midwest market rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a locational marginal price (lmp) which reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the new miso midwest market, we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. additionally, the miso midwest market subjects us to additional costs primarily associated with constraints in the transmission system. miso implemented the lmp system, a market-based platform for valuing transmission congestion. the lmp system includes the ability to mitigate or eliminate congestion charges through the use of financial transmission rights (ftrs). ftrs are allocated to market participants by miso. we are presently operating under an ftr allocation that will be in effect through may 31, 2006. to date, our unhedged congestion charges have not been material. however, there can be no assurance that we will be granted an adequate level of ftrs in the future to avoid material unhedged congestion charges. 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 78risk factors our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to the regulation of the pscw as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to the regulation of the mpsc as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except as to issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates. further, our hydroelectric facilities are regulated by ferc, and ferc also regulates our wholesale power service practices and electric reliability requirements. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we are obligated in good faith to comply with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. if it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 88% of our electric revenues are regulated by the pscw, 5% are regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues is regulated by ferc. all of our natural gas revenues are regulated by the pscw. our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to recover our costs and expenses and to maintain our current authorized rates of return. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs. factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of the natural gas-fired and coal-fired generating units we are constructing as part of our ptf strategy. under our ptf strategy, we expect to meet a significant portion of our future generation needs through the construction of two 545 mw natural gas-fired generating units at pwgs and two 615 mw coal-fired generating units to be located adjacent to our existing oak creek power plant. pwgs 1 was placed in service in july 2005 and has a current dependable capability of 575 mw. pwgs 2 is expected to go into service in the second quarter of 2008. oc 1 and oc 2 are scheduled to go into service in 2009 and 2010, respectively. large construction projects of this type are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the inability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, strikes, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner, legal challenges and appeals to granted permits, including the wpdes permit granted in connection with the oak creek expansion, changes in applicable law or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by courts or the permitting agencies, other governmental actions and events in the global economy. if final costs for the construction of the pwgs units exceed the fixed costs allowed in the pscw order, absent a finding by the pscw of extraordinary circumstances, such as force majeure conditions, this excess will not adjust the amount of the lease payments to be recovered from wisconsin electric's ratepayers. if final costs of the oak creek expansion are within 5% of the targeted cost, and the additional costs are deemed prudent by the pscw, the final lease payments for the oak creek expansion to be recovered from wisconsin electric's ratepayers would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs. costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the pscw of extraordinary circumstances, such as force majeure conditions. 28 we face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. we are subject to extensive environmental regulations affecting our past, present and future operations relating to, among other things, air emissions such as co 2, so 2 , no x, small particulates and mercury; water discharges; management of hazardous and solid waste (including polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs)); and removal of degraded lead paint. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. in addition to requiring capital expenditures, the operation of emission control equipment to meet emission limits and further regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at our current and former facilities, as well as at third-party owned sites. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. in addition, we may also be responsible for liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. global warming is increasingly a concern for the energy industry. although there continues to be significant debate regarding the extent of global warming and the impact of human activity, federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly co 2 . in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. we believe it is likely that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. however, we cannot predict what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective. several bills have been introduced in the united states congress that would compel co 2 emission reductions. while none have yet been passed by congress, the competing bills remain pending. proposals under consideration include limitations on the amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted (so called "caps") together with systems of trading permitted emissions capacities. this type of system could require us to reduce emissions, even though the technology is not currently available for efficient reduction, or to purchase costly allowances for such emissions. emissions also could be taxed independently of limits. in april 2007, the united states supreme court concluded that the epa already has authority to regulate co 2 emissions under the caa. as a result, the epa is now reconsidering whether to regulate motor vehicle emissions of co 2 under the caa. any decision to regulate motor vehicle co 2 emissions under the caa may have significant implications for stationary sources of co 2 emissions including fossil fuel fired electric generating plants. at the state level, on april 5, 2007, the governor of wisconsin signed executive order 191 creating the task force on global warming to bring together a group of wisconsin business, industry, government, energy and environmental leaders to examine the effects of, and solutions to, global warming in wisconsin. we are actively participating in the task force. the purpose of the task force is to discuss and analyze possible solutions to global warming challenges that pose a threat to wisconsin's economic and environmental health. the task force is 29 charged with creating a state plan of action to deliver to the governor to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in wisconsin. the work of the governor's task force is ongoing. in addition, on november 14, 2007, the governor of michigan signed executive order 2007-42 creating the michigan climate action council, which is similar in scope and purpose to the task force on global warming in wisconsin. the governors of both michigan and wisconsin have signed on to the "midwestern greenhouse gas reduction accord" and the associated "platform" document developed through the midwest governor's association. the stated goal of the platform is to "maximize the energy resources and economic advantages and opportunities of midwestern states while reducing emissions of atmospheric co 2 and other greenhouse gases". certain elements of this agreement have the potential to impact the cost and nature of our operations in wisconsin and michigan. these state and regional initiatives could lead to legislation and regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that could be implemented sooner and/or independent of federal regulation. these regulations could be more stringent than any federal legislation that is adopted. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with any future legislation and/or regulation that requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, or that recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. future legislation and/or regulation designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate and could affect future results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. we continue to monitor the legislative and regulatory developments in this area. although we expect the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions to have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the possible costs of the impacts. our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities, preferred stock and common stock. recently, certain investment banks announced the adoption of the "carbon principles," a set of guidelines designed to help the investment banks assess environmental risk in connection with the financing of new fossil fuel power plants. the carbon principles are expected to be employed in conjunction with an "enhanced environmental diligence process" in evaluating whether to participate in the financing of such projects. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. if our access to the capital markets were limited due to a rating downgrade, prevailing market conditions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our electric generation and gas transportation facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities, including cyber terrorism. a terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. 30 our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. higher natural gas costs may negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. significant increases in the cost of natural gas affect our electric and gas utility operations. natural gas costs have increased in recent years because the supply of natural gas has not kept pace with the demand for natural gas, which has grown throughout the united states as a result of increased reliance on natural gas-fired electric generating facilities. we expect that demand for natural gas will remain high into the foreseeable future and that significant price relief will not occur until additional natural gas reserves are developed. wisconsin electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in the leased pwgs 1 and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. in addition, higher natural gas costs also can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. wisconsin electric bears the regulatory risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs when those costs are higher than the base rate established in its rate structure. for 2008, wisconsin electric will be unable to prospectively recover fuel and purchased power costs until the costs exceed a pre-established annual band. in addition, higher natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. as a result of gcrms, our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar pass through of the cost of natural gas. however, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins. in addition, higher natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions also expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to obtain additional power purchases through other potentially higher cost generating resources in the miso energy markets. higher costs to obtain coal increase our working capital requirements. our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. our cost of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pensions costs. we expect to contribute approximately $45.4 million to fund the pension plans in 2008. depending upon the growth rate of the pension investments over time and depending upon the other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we could be required to contribute significant 31 additional amounts in the future to fund our plans. these additional funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve. in the event regional economic conditions or the demand for products produced in our service area decline, we may experience reduced demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. in addition, regional economic conditions also impact our collections of accounts receivable. customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations. our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan, including job and income growth. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. a population decline in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth could have a material adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. we are a holding company and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. wisconsin energy is a holding company and has no significant operations of its own. accordingly, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. our subsidiaries have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas bank back-up credit facilities have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. in addition, this act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. this provision and other requirements of this act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. wisconsin electric, wisconsin gas and edison sault are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. these permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other 32 associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. it is uncertain when retail access might be implemented in wisconsin; however, michigan has adopted retail choice which potentially affects our michigan operations. under retail access legislation, customers are permitted to choose their own electric generation supplier. all michigan electric customers were able to choose their electric generation supplier beginning in january 2002. although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in our service territories in michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within those rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented the miso energy markets on april 1, 2005. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a lmp that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets , we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. in addition, miso plans to implement an ancillary services market for operating reserves that would be simultaneously co-optimized with miso's existing e nergy markets. the ancillary services market is expected to commence in june 2008. the implementation of these and other new market designs has the potential to increase costs of transmission, costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, costs of participation in the market and costs associated with estimated payment settlements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 79 item 8quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 78 item 8risk factors our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to the regulation of the pscw as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to the regulation of the mpsc as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except as to the issuance of securities in the ordinary course of business, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates in the ordinary course of business. further, wisconsin electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by ferc, and ferc also regulates our wholesale power service practices and electric reliability requirements. our significant level of regulation imposes restric tions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we are obligated to comply in good faith with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. if it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 88% of our electric revenues are regulated by the pscw, 7% are regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues is regulated by ferc. all of our natural gas and steam revenues are regulated by the pscw. our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to recover our costs and expenses and to maintain our current authorized rates of return. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs. factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of oc 2 and other construction projects. under our ptf strategy, we expect to meet a significant portion of our future generation needs through the construction of two 545 mw natural gas-fired generating units at pwgs and two 615 mw coal-fired generating units (of which we own 515 mw each) located adjacent to our existing oak creek power plant. pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, which have a dependable capability of 545 mw each, were placed in service in july 2005 and may 2008, respectively. oc 1 was placed into service on february 2, 2010. bechtel is targeting the commercial operation of oc 2 by the end of august 2010. large construction projects of this type, as well as the construction of renewable energy generation and environmental improvements, are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the ability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials; the ability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; the ability to obtain necessary operating permits in a timely manner; legal challenges; changes in applicable law or regulations; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by courts or the permitting agencies; other governmental actions; and events in the global economy. upon commencement of the commissioning of oc 2, we will be selling test power into the miso energy markets. the amount we receive for the sale of this power will be affected by the market price for energy at the time of sale. if final costs of the oak creek expansion are within 5% of the costs initially approved by the pscw, and the additional costs are deemed to be prudent by the pscw, the final lease payments for the oak creek expansion to be recovered from wisconsin electric's ratepayers would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs. costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the pscw that such costs were prudently incurred and were the result of force majeure conditions, an excused event and/or an event of loss. 27 in december 2008, bechtel, the contractor of the oak creek expansion under a fixed price contract, submitted claims for schedule and cost relief related to the delay of the in-service dates for oc 1 and oc 2. through an amended claim filed on october 30, 2009, bechtel was seeking cost relief of $517.5 million and seven months of relief from liquidated damages for oc 1 and four months of relief for oc 2. these claims, as well as claims submitted by ers, had been submitted to binding arbitration. effective december 16, 2009, ers and bechtel entered into the settlement agreement to resolve these claims, under which, among other things, ers will pay to bechtel $72 million. if the pscw does not allow wisconsin electric to collect our share of this settlement in rates, as well as other additional amounts incurred above the costs initially approved by the pscw, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations by state and federal environmental agencies governing, among other things, air emissions such as co 2 , so 2 , no x , fine particulates and mercury; water discharges and management of hazardous, toxic and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and further regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain of our current and former facilities, and at third-party owned sites. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. in addition, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. if we fail (or failed) to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we could face significant costs if coal ash is regulated as a hazardous waste. we currently have a successful program of beneficial utilization for substantially all of our coal combustion products, including fly ash, bottom ash and synthetic gypsum, which avoids the need for disposal in specially-designed landfills. both wisconsin and michigan have regulations governing the use and disposal of these materials. recently, however, the epa stated it is considering classifying coal ash as hazardous waste. if coal ash is classified as hazardous waste, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our current program. curtailing our program could result in the loss of a revenue stream that helps to offset the cost of pollution control equipment and the activities necessary to collect the coal ash. in addition, if coal ash is classified as hazardous waste and we terminate our coal ash utilization program, we could be required to dispose of the coal ash at a significant cost to the company. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly co 2 , and the president and his administration have made it clear that they are focused on reducing such emissions through legislation and/or regulation. in addition, there have been international efforts 28 seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. we believe that future governmental legislation and/or regulation will require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. however, we cannot currently predict with any certainty what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective. legislation continues to be considered in the united states congress that would compel greenhouse gas emission reductions. the american clean energy and security act of 2009 passed the u.s. house of representatives in june 2009. the bill, among other things, (i) establishes a federal renewable energy standard; (ii) permits energy efficiency measures to satisfy part of the renewable energy standard; and (iii) establishes a cap-and-trade program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from various sectors of the economy, including electric and natural gas utilities. similar legislation is currently being considered in the u.s. senate, and could result in t he passage of enforceable federal standards, such as a cap-and-trade program, governing greenhouse gas emissions. legislation to regulate greenhouse gases and establish renewable and efficiency standards is also being considered on the state level. the state of michigan has enacted legislation that calls for the implementation of a renewable portfolio standard by 2015 and energy optimization (efficiency) targets up to 1% annually by 2015. the state of wisconsin is currently considering similar legislation addressing renewable energy and efficiency standards. in addition, the governors of both michigan and wisconsin have signed on to the "midwestern greenhouse gas reduction accord" and the associated "platform" document developed through the midwestern governors association. these state and regional initiatives could lead to legislation and regulation of greenhouse gas emissions that could be implemented sooner and/or independent of federal regulation, and could be more stringent than any federal legislation that is adopted. in addition to these federal and state legislative efforts, the epa is pursuing regulation of greenhouse gases using its existing authority under the caa. on december 7, 2009, the epa issued its long-expected endangerment finding. this determination provides that the atmospheric mix of six greenhouse gases endanger public health and welfare. the determination specifically addresses only the contribution to air pollution of greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles and itself has no immediate regulatory effect. however, in combination with a separate epa rulemaking that will establish limits on greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles, the endangerment finding sets in motion a regulatory process that would likely lead to widespread regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources, including electric generating units, absent legislative or other intervention by the administration. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from power plants will impact our ability to do maintenance or modify our existing facilities, and permit new facilities. in september 2009, the epa issued two proposals intended to provide guidance on, and effectively change, how the caa's existing permitting requirements could be applied to sources of greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors of the economy, including major stationary sources of air pollutants like electric generating plants. the endangerment finding, the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles and these two additional proposals would provide a framework for the epa to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from major sources under the caa. some states and environmental groups are also bringing lawsuits against electric utilities and others to force reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. a decision in the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit has made it easier for lawsuits to move forward based upon the alleged public nuisance of climate change. the second circuit ruled that the plaintiffs in that case have standing to file suit against six electric power corporations for their contribution to the alleged public nuisance of climate change, and that the court's jurisdiction over such lawsuit is not barred by the political question doctrine. the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit reached a similar conclusion in another nuisance lawsuit involving climate change. based on these recent decisions, this type of litigation may increase in frequency. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with any future legislation, regulation or order that requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any cap-and-trade program that may be adopted, either at the federal, state or regional level, or other legislation, regulation or order designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain and could have a material adverse impact on our electric generation and natural gas distribution operations, cash flows and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. we continue to monitor the legislative, regulatory and legal developments in this area. although we expect the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions to have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is 29 premature to attempt to quantify the possible costs of the impacts. our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities, preferred stock and common stock. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, under competitive terms and rates. if our access to any of these markets were limited, or our cost of capital significantly increased due to a rating downgrade, prevailing market conditions, failures of financial institutions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our electric generation and gas transportation facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities, including cyber terrorism. a terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. an increase in natural gas costs could negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. wisconsin electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. in addition, higher natural gas costs also can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. for wisconsin customers, wisconsin electric bears the regulatory risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs when those costs are higher than the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs used to determine the base rate established in its rate structure. our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar recovery of the cost of natural gas, subject to tolerance bands and prudency review. however, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins. in addition, an i ncrease in natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions could also expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. additionally, high natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. although we currently have an adequate supply of coal at our coal-fired facilities, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have an adequate supply of coal in the future. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if we significantly reduce our inventory of coal and 30 are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal units and replace this lost generation from higher cost generating resources or through additional power purchases in the miso energy markets. our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. our cost of providing defined benefit pension plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. depending upon the growth rate of the pension investments over time and other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we may be required to contribute significant additional amounts in the future to fund our plans. these additional funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve. as a result of the significant downturn in the economy during 2008 and 2009, we saw a deterioration in regional economic conditions. as the demand for products produced in our service area declines, we ordinarily experience reduced demand for electricity and/or natural gas. if the economic conditions in our service territories and/or demand for products produced in our service area does not continue to improve or declines again, we could experience a further reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. we would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted. customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations. our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan, including job and income growth. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. population declines and/or business closings in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth as a result of the significant downturn in the economy during 2008 and 2009 or otherwise has, to a limited extent, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. we are a holding company and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. wisconsin energy is a holding company and has no significant operations of its own. accordingly, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to wisconsin energy, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. our subsidiaries also have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of the bank back-up credit facilities for wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratio that must be maintained. 31 provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system. in addition, the act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. this provision and other requirements of the act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. wisconsin electric, wisconsin gas and edison sault are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. these permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. it is uncertain when retail access might be implemented in wisconsin; however, michigan has adopted retail choice which potentially affects our michigan operations. under retail access legislation, customers are permitted to choose their own electric generation supplier. all michigan electric customers were able to choose their electric generation supplier beginning in january 2002. although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in our service territories in michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within those rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented the bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets on april 1, 2005. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a lmp that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets , we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. in addition, in january 2009, miso implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that was sim ultaneously co-optimized with miso's existing energy markets. the new market designs have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the market and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 74 wisconsin energy corporationrisk factors our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to the regulation of the pscw as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to the regulation of the mpsc as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except as to the issuance of securities in the ordinary course of business, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates in the ordinary course of business. further, wisconsin electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by ferc, and ferc also regulates our wholesale power service practices, electric reliability requirements, and participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we are obligated to comply in good faith with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. if it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 87% of our electric revenues are regulated by the pscw, 7% are regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues is regulated by ferc. all of our natural gas and steam revenues are regulated by the pscw. our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to recover our costs and expenses and to maintain our current authorized rates of return. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs. factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of major construction projects. we are in the process of constructing new renewable generation and adding environmental controls equipment to existing generating facilities. these types of large construction projects are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the ability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials; the ability of the contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; the ability to obtain necessary operating permits in a timely manner; legal challenges; changes in applicable law or regulations; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by courts or the permitting agencies; other governmental actions; and events in the global economy. if we are unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decide to delay or cancel construction, we may not be able to recover our investment in the facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment and construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and/or higher than amounts approved by our regulators, and there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to recover these costs in rates. in addition, construction delays can result in the delay of revenues and, therefore, could affect our results of operations. 25 we estimate that the final cost of the oak creek expansion is approximately $191 million, or 8.7%, over the amount initially approved by the pscw, of which our share is $162 million. this additional amount includes the amounts payable to bechtel power corporation (bechtel) pursuant to the settlement agreement. the order approving the oak creek expansion provides that if final costs are within 5% of the costs initially approved by the pscw, and the additional costs are deemed to be prudent by the pscw, the final lease payments for the oak creek expansion to be recovered from wisconsin electric's ratepayers would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs. costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the pscw that such costs were prudently incurred and were the result of force majeure conditions, an excused event and/or an event of loss. in addition, the leases provide for a guaranteed in-service date of september 29, 2009 for oc 1 and september 29, 2010 for oc 2, and impose liquidated damages of $250,000 per day, of which ergss' share is approximately $208,350 per day, for failure to achieve the guaranteed in-service date unless the delays result from force majeure conditions or an excused event. ergss is entitled to receive its share of liquidated damages from bechtel for each day bechtel failed to achieve the same guaranteed in-service dates, unless the delays resulted from force majeure conditions or an excused event. bechtel was granted total schedule relief of 120 days for oc 1 and 81 days for oc 2. all liquidated damages collected are for the benefit of wisconsin electric's customers. there is no guarantee that the pscw will grant ergss the same schedule relief. in light of the weather delays incurred on the project and other factors, we expect to request authorization from the pscw to recover all costs associated with the units and to grant relief from liquidated damages. if the pscw does not allow wisconsin electric to collect our share of the additional costs or grant ergss the same schedule relief, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we may face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. our operations are subject to extensive environmental legislation and regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide (co 2 ), so 2 , no x , fine particulates and mercury; water discharges; and management of hazardous, toxic and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. the epa has proposed a new rule, the clean air transport rule (catr), to replace the clean air interstate rule (cair). we estimate the capital expenditures necessary to comply with the catr and other new environmental regulations that are being promulgated at the federal and state level could be up to $400 million above the expected cost of implementing the consent decree between wisconsin electric and the epa. some of these costs are included in the table under "capital expenditures" in the liquidity and capital resources section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and further regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. environmental legislation and regulation and the related compliance costs could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions, and could result in some of our coal-fired generating units being retired or converted to an alternative type of fuel. costs associated with these potential actions could affect our results of operations and financial condition. our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain of our current and former facilities, and at third-party owned sites. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. 26 we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. if we fail (or failed) to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, any higher costs that are collected through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, natural gas or steam, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs if coal combustion products are regulated as hazardous waste. we currently have a program of beneficial utilization for substantially all of our coal combustion products, including fly ash, bottom ash and gypsum, which minimizes the need for disposal in specially-designed landfills. both wisconsin and michigan have regulations governing the use and disposal of these materials. however, the epa issued a draft rule for public comment proposing various scenarios for regulating coal combustion products including classifying coal combustion products as hazardous waste. if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our current program. in addition, if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste and we terminate our coal combustion products utilization program, we could be required to dispose of the coal combustion products at a significant cost to the company, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals have been introduced to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly co 2 , and the president and his administration have made it clear that they are focused on reducing such emissions through legislation and/or regulation. in addition, there have been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases. we believe that future governmental legislation and/or regulation will require us either to limit greenhouse gas emissions from our operations or to purchase allowances for such emissions. however, we cannot currently predict with any certainty what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective. we expect the u.s. congress to continue consideration of legislation that would compel greenhouse gas emission reductions. legislation to regulate greenhouse gas emissions and establish renewable and efficiency standards has also been considered on the state level. the state of michigan has enacted legislation that calls for the implementation of a renewable portfolio standard by 2015 and energy optimization (efficiency) targets up to 1% annually by 2015. the state of wisconsin has adopted its own renewable portfolio standard and energy optimization targets. during its 2010 legislative session, the wisconsin legislature considered, but ultimately did not pass, a proposal to increase wisconsin's renewable portfolio standard and energy optimization targets. there is no guarantee the legislature will not consider similar legislation in the future. in addition to these federal and state legislative efforts, the epa is pursuing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions using its existing authority under the clean air act (caa). in december 2009, the epa issued its endangerment finding related to greenhouse gas emissions, which set in motion a regulatory process that is leading to regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources, including electric generating units. in march 2010, the epa finalized its determination of when the caa's permitting requirements for emissions from facilities would apply to greenhouse gas emissions. the regulation of stationary sources will occur in multiple steps in the coming years, beginning with the first step that became effective january 2, 2011. this initial step covers sources that are already subject to epa regulations for pollutants other than greenhouse gas. in july 2011, the second step is scheduled to 27 become effective, covering new construction projects and modifications at existing power plants. additionally, in december 2010, the epa reached an agreement with several states and environmental groups to propose and finalize rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions from certain new or modified coal-fired power plants and guidelines addressing greenhouse gas emissions from certain existing power plants by may 26, 2012. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from power plants will impact our ability to do maintenance or modify our existing facilities, and permit new facilities. several parties have filed for judicial review of some of the epa's new greenhouse gas rules. in december 2010, the federal court denied a motion to stay the greenhouse gas rules pending judicial review, so the rules will continue in effect unless overturned by the court. depending on the extent of rate recovery and other factors, these rules could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. some states and environmental groups are also bringing lawsuits against electric utilities and others to force reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. to date, three separate lawsuits are pending in the federal courts. in two of these cases, the federal appellate courts have found in favor of the plaintiffs, making it easier for lawsuits based upon the alleged public nuisance of climate change to move forward. these cases essentially hold that plaintiffs have standing to file suit against electric power corporations for their contribution to the alleged public nuisance of climate change, and that the court's jurisdiction over such lawsuit is not barred by the political question doctrine. one of these lawsuits ( comer v. murphy oil usa), was vacated by the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit on procedural grounds. in the second lawsuit ( connecticut v. american electric power co. ), the defendants petitioned the united states supreme court to review the decision of the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit, which it agreed to do. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with any future legislation, regulation or order that requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any cap-and-trade or greenhouse gas tax program that may be adopted, either at the federal or state level, or other legislation, regulation or order designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse impact on our electric generation and natural gas distribution operations. such regulation could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, and could affect our future results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. we continue to monitor the legislative, regulatory and legal developments in this area. although we expect the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions to have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the possible costs of the impacts. our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities, preferred stock and common stock. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, under competitive terms and rates. if our access to any of these markets were limited, or our cost of capital significantly increased due to a rating downgrade, prevailing market conditions, negative view of the utility industry, failures of financial institutions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. a downgrade in the credit ratings of wec or any of its subsidiaries could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact wisconsin energy's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, without limitation, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. wisconsin energy or any of its subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in their ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or wisconsin energy and/or its subsidiaries has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if wisconsin energy or its subsidiaries are downgraded by the rating agencies, their borrowing costs could 28 increase, funding sources could decrease and, for any downgrade to below investment grade, collateral requirements may be triggered in several contracts. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage commodity and, to a much lesser extent, interest rate exposures. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas must be approved by the pscw, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our electric generation and gas transportation facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities, including cyber terrorism. a terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. our revenues could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets. ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. we currently cannot predict the impact of these developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. an increase in natural gas costs could negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. wisconsin electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. in addition, higher natural gas costs also can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. for wisconsin customers, wisconsin electric bears the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical two percent fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in its rate structure. our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar recovery of the 29 cost of natural gas, subject to tolerance bands and prudency review. however, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins. in addition, an increase in natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions could also expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. additionally, high natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. although we currently have an adequate supply of coal at our coal-fired facilities, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have an adequate supply of coal in the future. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if we significantly reduce our inventory of coal and are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal units and replace this lost generation from higher cost generating resources or through additional power purchases in the miso energy markets. our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. our cost of providing defined benefit pension plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. depending upon the growth rate of the pension investments over time and other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we may be required to contribute significant additional amounts in the future to fund our plans. these additional funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the customers we serve. as the demand for products produced in our service area declines, we ordinarily experience reduced demand for electricity and/or natural gas. during 2010, our service territory experienced growth, but future growth could be impacted by the overall economy in our service territories. if the economic conditions in our service territories and/or demand for products produced in our service area does not continue to improve or declines again, we could experience a reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. we would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted. 30 customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations. our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan, including job and income growth. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. population declines and/or business closings in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth has had, to a limited extent, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition or results of operations. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact our results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to wisconsin energy, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. our subsidiaries also have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of the bank back-up credit facilities for wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. wisconsin energy's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system. in addition, the act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. this provision and other requirements of the act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. these permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term 31 that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. wisconsin electric could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. wisconsin electric is subject to mandatory reliability standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject wisconsin electric to higher operating costs. if wisconsin electric is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, it could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. it is uncertain when retail access might be implemented in wisconsin; however, michigan has adopted retail choice which allows customers to choose their own electric generation supplier. although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in our service territories in michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within those rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a locational marginal price (lmp) that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets, we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that was simultaneously co-optimized with its existing energy markets. these market designs have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the market and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 73risk factors risks related to the operation of our business our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to the regulation of the pscw as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to the regulation of the mpsc as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except as to the issuance of securities in the ordinary course of business, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates in the ordinary course of business. further, wisconsin electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by ferc, and ferc also regulates our wholesale power service practices, electric reliability requirements, and participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we are obligated to comply in good faith with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. if it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 86% of our electric revenues are regulated by the pscw, 7% are regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues is regulated by ferc. all of our natural gas and steam revenues are regulated by the pscw. our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to recover our costs and expenses and to maintain our current authorized rates of return. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs. governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. these permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of major construction projects. we are in the process of constructing new renewable generation and adding environmental controls equipment to existing generating facilities. these types of large construction projects are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the ability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials; the ability of the contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; the ability to obtain necessary operating permits in a timely manner; legal challenges; changes in applicable law or regulations; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by courts or the permitting agencies; other 24 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2011 form 10-k governmental actions; and events in the global economy. if we are unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decide to delay or cancel construction, we may not be able to recover our investment in the facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment and construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and/or higher than amounts approved by our regulators, and there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to recover these costs in rates. in addition, construction delays can result in the delay of revenues and, therefore, could affect our results of operations. we estimate that the final cost of the oak creek expansion is approximately $181 million, or 8.3%, over the amount initially approved by the pscw, of which our share is approximately $154 million. this additional amount includes the amounts payable to bechtel power corporation (bechtel) pursuant to the settlement agreement. the order approving the oak creek expansion provides that if final costs are within 5% of the costs initially approved by the pscw, and the additional costs are deemed to be prudent by the pscw, the final lease payments for the oak creek expansion to be recovered from wisconsin electric's ratepayers would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs. costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the pscw that such costs were prudently incurred and were the result of force majeure conditions, an excused event and/or an event of loss. in addition, the leases provided for a guaranteed in-service date of september 29, 2009 for oc 1 and september 29, 2010 for oc 2, and imposed liquidated damages of $250,000 per day, of which elm road generating station supercritical, llc's (ergss) share is approximately $208,350 per day, for failure to achieve the guaranteed in-service date unless the delays resulted from force majeure conditions or an excused event. ergss is entitled to receive its share of liquidated damages from bechtel for each day bechtel failed to achieve the same guaranteed in-service dates, unless the delays resulted from force majeure conditions or an excused event. bechtel was granted total schedule relief of 120 days for oc 1 and 81 days for oc 2. all liquidated damages collected are for the benefit of wisconsin electric's customers. there is no guarantee that the pscw will grant ergss the same schedule relief. in light of the weather delays incurred on the project and other factors, we expect to request authorization from the pscw to recover all costs associated with the units and to grant relief from liquidated damages. if the pscw does not allow wisconsin electric to collect our share of the additional costs or grant ergss the same schedule relief, our results of operations could be adversely affected. customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations. our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. customer growth can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan, including job and income growth. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. population declines and/or business closings in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth has a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow. energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. severe weather events, such as floods, droughts, tornadoes and blizzards, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of our facilities. severe weather events could result in substantial damage to our electric generating and gas distribution facilities, as well as atc's transmission lines. our hydroelectric generation operations could be adversely affected if there is a significant change in water levels in their respective waterways. in addition, a significant reduction in water levels in waterways that supply cooling water to our coal- and natural gas-fired power plants, whether by drought or otherwise, could restrict or prevent the operation of such facilities. 25 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2011 form 10-k in the event we experience any of these weather events or other natural disaster, recovery of any costs in excess of any reserves or applicable insurance is subject to the approval of the pscw and/or mpsc. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover any such costs or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any denial or delay in recovery of any such costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, damages resulting from severe weather events within our service territories may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity and natural gas for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. a decrease in revenues from these facilities or an increase in operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to wisconsin energy, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. our subsidiaries also have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of the bank back-up credit facilities for wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. wisconsin energy's subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations. an increase in natural gas costs could negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. wisconsin electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. disruption in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution can increase the cost of natural gas, as can international market conditions and demand for natural gas. higher natural gas costs can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. for wisconsin customers, wisconsin electric bears the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical two percent fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in its rate structure. our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar recovery of the cost of natural gas, subject to tolerance bands and prudency review. however, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins. in addition, an increase in natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions could also expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. additionally, high natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. although we currently have an adequate supply of coal at our coal-fired facilities, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have an adequate supply of coal in the future. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill 26 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2011 form 10-k their obligations to us. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. furthermore, international demand for coal can impact its availability and cost. if we significantly reduce our inventory of coal and are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal units and replace this lost generation from higher cost generating resources or through additional power purchases in the miso energy markets. acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our electric generation and gas distribution facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities. a terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we could be the subject of cyber intrusions that disrupt our electric generation and gas distribution operations and/or result in security breaches that expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information, litigation and potential liability. cyber intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for the electric and gas distribution systems, could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric generation and/or gas distribution operations. any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches. furthermore, we may need to obtain more expensive purchased power to meet customer demand for electricity if our electric generating facilities are unable to operate at full capacity as a result of a cyber intrusion. any resulting loss of revenue or increase in expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. in addition, any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, stockholder, employee or proprietary data as a result of cyber intrusion or otherwise could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers, stockholders and regulators, among others. as cyber attacks become more sophisticated generally, we may be required to incur significant costs to strengthen our information and electronic control systems from outside intrusions and/or to obtain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks. wisconsin electric could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. wisconsin electric is subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical and physical and cybersecurity assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject wisconsin electric to higher operating costs. if wisconsin electric is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, it could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. a downgrade in the credit ratings of wec or any of its subsidiaries could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact wisconsin energy's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, without limitation, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. wisconsin energy or any of its subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in their ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or wisconsin energy and/or its subsidiaries has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if wisconsin energy or its subsidiaries are downgraded by the rating agencies, their borrowing costs could increase, funding sources could decrease and, for any downgrade to below investment grade, collateral requirements may be triggered in several contracts. 27 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2011 form 10-k failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact our results of operations. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage commodity and, to a much lesser extent, interest rate exposures. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas must be approved by the pscw, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the dodd-frank act could impact our use of over-the-counter (otc) derivatives. regulations to implement the dodd-frank act could impose additional requirements on the use of otc derivatives, which could affect both the use and cost of otc derivatives. the impact, if any, cannot be determined until the regulations are finalized. our revenues could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets. ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, futures contracts and derivatives are traded on various commodities exchanges. we currently cannot predict the impact of these developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. it is uncertain when retail access might be implemented in wisconsin; however, michigan has adopted retail choice which allows customers to choose their own electric generation supplier. although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in our service territories in michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within those rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a locational marginal price (lmp) that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets, we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that was simultaneously co-optimized with its existing energy markets. these market designs have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient 28 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2011 form 10-k generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the market and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. risks related to legislation and regulation we may face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. our operations are subject to extensive environmental legislation and regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide (co 2 ), so 2 , no x , fine particulates and mercury; water discharges; and management of hazardous, toxic and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. in april 2003, wisconsin electric reached a consent decree with the epa to significantly reduce air emissions from its coal-fired generating facilities. through the end of 2011, we had invested approximately $1.0 billion to comply with the consent decree. the total cost of implementing the consent decree is currently estimated to be approximately $1.1 billion over the ten year period ending 2013. several new environmental regulations have recently been proposed or adopted, including the epa's cross-state air pollution rule (csapr), the mercury and air toxics standards (mats) rule (also referred to as the utility maximum achievable control technology (mact) rule) and new so 2 national ambient air quality standards. various petitioners have requested judicial and administrative review of many of these regulations, including csapr. the december 30, 2011 decision of the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia to grant a motion to stay csapr, which was scheduled to become effective on january 1, 2012, adds substantial uncertainty as to what capital expenditures may be required to comply with new environmental regulations. despite this uncertainty, we currently estimate the capital expenditures necessary to comply with these new environmental regulations, including the utility mact rule, over the three year period ending 2014 could be up to $16 million more than the estimated cost of implementing the consent decree. these costs are included in the table under "capital expenditures" in the liquidity and capital resources section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and further regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. environmental legislation and regulation and the related compliance costs could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions, and could result in some of our coal-fired generating units being retired or converted to an alternative type of fuel. in order to comply with new environmental requirements we are currently exploring different alternatives with regard to the presque isle power plant in the upper peninsula of michigan and the vapp in milwaukee, wisconsin. we have committed to convert the vapp from coal to natural gas if we are able to determine that such conversion will have a direct economic benefit to our customers and we receive approval from the pscw. costs associated with these potential actions could affect our results of operations and financial condition. our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain of our current and former facilities, and at third-party owned sites. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. if we fail (or failed) to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and 29 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2011 form 10-k damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. energy conservation and rate increases could negatively impact financial results. wisconsin and michigan have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. to the extent there is any regulatory lag to adjust rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures, these measures could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, any higher costs that are collected through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, natural gas or steam, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs if coal combustion products are regulated as hazardous waste. we currently have a program of beneficial utilization for substantially all of our coal combustion products, including fly ash, bottom ash and gypsum, which minimizes the need for disposal in specially-designed landfills. both wisconsin and michigan have regulations governing the use and disposal of these materials. in june 2010, the epa issued draft rules for public comment proposing two alternative rules for regulating coal combustion products. one of the proposed rules classifies the materials as hazardous waste. we submitted comments on the proposed rules in 2010. the epa also issued a notice of data availability (noda) in october 2011, and we submitted comments on the noda in november 2011. if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our current program. if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste and we terminate our coal combustion products utilization program, we could be required to dispose of the coal combustion products at a significant cost to the company, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the epa finalized the commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units rule under the clean air act (caa), and finalized a non-hazardous secondary materials rule. both of these rules have the potential to negatively affect our ability to reburn coal ash from power plants and landfills. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions through legislation and regulation has been, and continues to be, a focus of the president and his administration. although legislation that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy standards and/or energy efficiency standards has failed to pass in the u.s. congress, we expect such legislation to be considered in the future. although we cannot currently predict with any certainty what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective, we do believe that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us to limit or control greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, purchase allowances for such emissions or otherwise incur costs in connection with such emissions. while climate legislation has yet to be adopted, the epa is pursuing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions using its existing authority under the caa. in december 2009, the epa issued its endangerment finding related to greenhouse gas emissions, which set in motion a regulatory process that has led to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources, including electric generating units. in march 2010, the epa issued regulations governing the applicability of the caa's permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions from facilities, including electric generating units. these rules became applicable to sources that are already subject to caa permitting requirements, as well as new and modified sources, during 2011. additionally, the epa plans to propose new source performance standards pertaining to greenhouse gas emissions from certain new or modified coal-fired power plants by the end of may 2012. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from power plants may negatively impact our ability to perform maintenance or modify our existing facilities, and permit new facilities. depending on the extent of rate recovery and other factors, these rules could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. legislation to regulate greenhouse gas emissions and establish renewable and efficiency standards has also been considered on the state level. the state of michigan has enacted legislation that calls for the implementation of a 30 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2011 form 10-k renewable portfolio standard by 2015 and energy optimization (efficiency) targets up to 1% annually by 2015. the state of wisconsin has adopted its own renewable portfolio standard and energy optimization targets. although the wisconsin legislature ultimately did not pass a legislative proposal to increase wisconsin's renewable portfolio standard and energy optimization targets, there is no guarantee the legislature will not consider similar legislation in the future. some states and environmental groups are also bringing lawsuits against electric utilities and others to force reductions in greenhouse gas emissions based upon their contribution to the alleged public nuisance of climate change. on june 20, 2011, in connecticut v. american electric power co. , however, the united states supreme court ruled that the plaintiffs in that litigation did not have standing to claim nuisance due to the release of greenhouse gas into the atmosphere by the defendants, and the plaintiffs have since voluntarily dismissed their remaining claims. similar cases are pending in other courts. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with any future legislation, regulation or order that requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any cap-and-trade or greenhouse gas tax program that may be adopted, either at the federal or state level, or other legislation, regulation or order designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse impact on our electric generation and natural gas distribution operations. such regulation could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, and could adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. we continue to monitor the legislative, regulatory and legal developments in this area. although we expect the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions to have a material impact on our operations and rates, we believe it is premature to attempt to quantify the possible costs of the impacts. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system. in addition, the act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. this provision and other requirements of the act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities and common stock. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, under competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. if our access to any of these markets were limited, or our cost of capital significantly increased, due to a rating downgrade, an economic downturn or uncertainty, prevailing market conditions, concerns over foreign economic conditions and/or the ability of foreign governments and central banks to respond to changing economic conditions, a negative view of the utility industry, failures of financial institutions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 31 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2011 form 10-k we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the customers we serve. as the demand for products produced in our service area declines, we ordinarily experience reduced demand for electricity and/or natural gas. during 2011, our service territory experienced growth, but future growth could be impacted by the overall economy in our service territories. if the economic conditions in our service territories and/or demand for products produced in our service area does not continue to improve or declines again, we could experience a reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. we would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted. poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. our cost of providing defined benefit pension plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets, as experienced in prior periods, may increase our funding requirements. changes in interest rates affect plan liabilities - as rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could increase our funding requirements. changes in demographics, such as an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase our funding requirements. changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. these additional funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. a loss for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7 of this report, as well as note l -- derivative instruments and note m -- fair value measurements in the notes to consolidated financial statements, for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 70 wisconsin energy corporation 2011 form 10-krisk factors risks related to the operation of our business our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to the regulation of the pscw as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to the regulation of the mpsc as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except as to the issuance of securities in the ordinary course of business, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates in the ordinary course of business. further, wisconsin electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by ferc, and ferc also regulates our wholesale power service practices, electric reliability requirements, and participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we are obligated to comply in good faith with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. if it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 88% of our electric revenues are regulated by the pscw, 6% are regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues is regulated by ferc. all of our natural gas and steam revenues are regulated by the pscw. our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to recover our costs and expenses and to maintain our current authorized rates of return. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs. governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. these permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects. we are in the process of constructing new renewable generation, including the biomass facility in rothschild, wisconsin. these types of construction projects are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the ability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials; the ability of the contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; the ability to obtain necessary operating permits in a timely manner; legal challenges; changes in applicable law or regulations; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by courts or the permitting agencies; other governmental actions; and events in the global economy. 25 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2012 form 10-k if we are unable to complete the development or construction of a facility or decide to delay or cancel construction, we may not be able to recover our investment in the facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment and construction contracts. even if a construction project is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and/or higher than amounts approved by our regulators, and there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to recover these costs in rates. construction delays can also result in the delay of revenues and, therefore, could affect our results of operations. in addition, construction delays at our biomass facility currently under construction could result in the loss of a cash grant we expect to receive pursuant to the national defense authorization act (ndaa). the pscw included the anticipated proceeds from this grant when it set wisconsin electric ' retail electric rates in wisconsin electric ' 2013 rate case, thereby reducing the amounts collected directly from our customers. we have announced plans to upgrade our electric and natural gas distribution systems. although these projects are smaller in scope than the above referenced construction projects, they are still subject to many of the same risks and challenges. customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations. our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. customer growth and energy use can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan, including job and income growth. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. population declines and/or business closings in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth has a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow and could expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills. energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. severe weather events, such as floods, droughts, tornadoes and blizzards, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of our facilities. severe weather events could result in substantial damage to our electric generating and gas distribution facilities, as well as atc's transmission lines. our hydroelectric generation operations could be adversely affected if there is a significant change in water levels in their respective waterways. in addition, a significant reduction in water levels in waterways that supply cooling water to our coal- and natural gas-fired power plants, whether by drought or otherwise, could restrict or prevent the operation of such facilities. in the event we experience any of these weather events or other natural disaster, recovery of any costs in excess of any reserves or applicable insurance is subject to the approval of the pscw and/or mpsc. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover any such costs or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any denial or delay in recovery of any such costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, damages resulting from severe weather events within our service territories may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity and natural gas for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 26 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2012 form 10-k our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. a decrease in revenues from these facilities or an increase in operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to wisconsin energy, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. our subsidiaries also have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of the bank back-up credit facilities for wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. an increase in natural gas costs could negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. wisconsin electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. disruption in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution can increase the cost of natural gas, as can international market conditions and demand for natural gas. higher natural gas costs can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. additionally, high natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. for wisconsin customers, wisconsin electric bears the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical two percent fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in its rate structure. our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar recovery of the cost of natural gas, subject to tolerance bands and prudency review. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. although we currently have an adequate supply of coal at our coal-fired facilities, there can be no assurance that we will continue to have an adequate supply of coal in the future. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. furthermore, international demand for coal can impact its availability and cost. if we significantly reduce our inventory of coal and are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal units and replace this lost generation through additional power purchases in the miso energy markets. acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our electric generation and gas distribution facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities. a terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and 27 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2012 form 10-k adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we could be the subject of cyber intrusions that disrupt our electric generation and gas distribution operations and/or result in security breaches that expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information, litigation and potential liability. we operate in an industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional transmission grid. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information including personal information about our customers and employees. cyber intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for the electric and gas distribution systems, could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric generation and/or gas distribution operations. any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches. furthermore, we may need to obtain more expensive purchased power to meet customer demand for electricity if our electric generating facilities are unable to operate at full capacity as a result of a cyber intrusion. any resulting loss of revenue or increase in expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. in addition, any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, stockholder, employee or proprietary data as a result of cyber intrusion or otherwise could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers, stockholders and regulators, among others. internet - based attacks on critical u.s. energy infrastructure are occurring with more frequency. on february 12, 2013, the president issued an executive order providing for intelligence gathering and information exchange on cyber attacks and cyber threats to privately owned critical infrastructure. the framework is to be developed jointly by the government and industry. as cyber attacks become more sophisticated generally and/or as this framework is implemented, we may be required to incur significant costs to strengthen our information and electronic control systems from outside intrusions and/or to obtain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks. wisconsin electric could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. wisconsin electric is subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical and physical and cybersecurity assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject wisconsin electric to higher operating costs. if wisconsin electric is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, it could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. a downgrade in the credit ratings of wec or any of its subsidiaries could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact wisconsin energy's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, without limitation, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. wisconsin energy or any of its subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in their ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or wisconsin energy and/or its subsidiaries has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if wisconsin energy or its subsidiaries are downgraded by the rating agencies, their borrowing costs could increase, funding sources could decrease and, for any downgrade to below investment grade, collateral requirements may be triggered in several contracts. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact our results of operations. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess a unique technical skill set. events such 28 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2012 form 10-k as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. work stoppages or increased labor costs could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2012, we had 4,504 total employees, of which 2,970 or approximately 66% are represented by labor unions. all of our labor agreements are scheduled to expire in 2013. we expect that rising healthcare, pension and wage costs, among other things, will be important topics for negotiation. it is important for us to control healthcare, pension and wage costs provided for in the labor agreements, or we risk increased operational costs. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions, we could be subject to strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. these actions could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage commodity exposures. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas must be approved by the pscw, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. the dodd-frank act, enacted in july 2010, provides for the regulation of derivatives and grants the cftc expanded regulatory authority over derivative and swap transactions. the cftc has promulgated numerous regulations that will impose additional requirements on the use of derivatives and swap transactions for us and our counterparties, which could affect both the use and cost of these instruments. several of the rules still need to be finalized, pending the cftc's requests for further comments on certain interim rules, interpretations and proposed exemptions, and requests for clarifications by several interested parties. although we cannot be certain of the impact of these new rules on us until these matters are fully resolved, we currently do not expect it to be material. our revenues could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets. ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter (otc). technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. we currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. it is uncertain whether retail access might be implemented in wisconsin. michigan has adopted retail choice which allows customers to remain with their regulated utility at regulated rates or choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. we continue providing distribution and customer service functions regardless of the customer's power supplier. although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in 29 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2012 form 10-k our service territories in michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. a loss of customers could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within those rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a locational marginal price (lmp) that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets, we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that was simultaneously co-optimized with its existing energy markets. these market designs have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the market and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. risks related to legislation and regulation we may face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. our operations are subject to extensive environmental legislation and regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide (co 2 ), so 2 , no x , fine particulates and mercury; water discharges; and management of hazardous, toxic and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. in april 2003, wisconsin electric reached a consent decree with the epa to significantly reduce air emissions from its coal-fired generating facilities. through the end of 2012, we had invested approximately $1.2 billion to comply with the consent decree. we estimate we will spend an additional $22 million in 2013 for final implementation costs. we will be required to be in compliance with environmental regulations that become effective over the next several years, including the epa's mercury and air toxics standards (mats) rule , new so 2 and nitrogen dioxide national ambient air quality standards and new emission limits on fine particulate matter (pm 2.5 ), as well as rules related to cooling water intake structures at our power plants. in addition, the epa adopted the cross - state air pollution rule (csapr), which provides for limits on the interstate transport of no x and so 2 emissions. the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit vacated the csapr. the epa had requested the court to re-hear the case; however, on january 24, 2013 the court denied the epa's request. the epa may still appeal this decision to the united states supreme court. therefore, there is still substantial uncertainty as to what capital expenditures may ultimately be required to comply with these regulations. in the meantime, the clean air interstate rule (cair) remains in effect. we continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. we entered a joint ownership agreement with wolverine regarding pipp whereby, subject to the approval of various state and federal agencies, wolverine will pay for the installation of environmental upgrades at the plant and will receive a minority ownership interest in the plant in return. in addition, we announced plans to convert the fuel source for vapp from coal to natural gas at an expected cost of between $60 million and $65 million. these and other compliance costs we expect to incur over the next three years are included in the table under "capital expenditures" in the liquidity and capital resources section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and further regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. additional environmental legislation and regulation and the related compliance costs could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions . 30 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2012 form 10-k if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the wisconsin department of natural resources (wdnr) has issued notices of violation to wisconsin electric alleging violations of certain environmental rules. an adverse outcome in these matters could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain of our current and former facilities, and at third-party owned sites. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. if we fail (or failed) to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. energy conservation and rate increases could negatively impact financial results. wisconsin and michigan have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. to the extent there is any regulatory lag to adjust rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures, these measures could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, any higher costs that are collected through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, natural gas or steam, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs if coal combustion products are regulated as hazardous waste. we currently have a program of beneficial utilization for substantially all of our coal combustion products, including fly ash, bottom ash and gypsum, which minimizes the need for disposal in specially-designed landfills. both wisconsin and michigan have regulations governing the use and disposal of these materials. in 2010, the epa issued draft rules for public comment proposing two alternative rules for regulating coal combustion products, one of which would classify the materials as hazardous waste. if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our current program. if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste and we terminate our coal combustion products utilization program, we could be required to dispose of the coal combustion products at a significant cost to the company, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we anticipate that the earliest the epa will take action on this matter is the first quarter of 2014. in addition, the epa finalized the commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units rule under the clean air act (caa), and finalized a non-hazardous secondary materials rule. both of these rules have the potential to negatively affect our ability to reburn coal ash from power plants and landfills. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. the president's administration recently reaffirmed that the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions continues to be a top priority. legislation that would impose mandatory requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy standards and/or energy efficiency standards has failed to pass in the u.s. congress; however, we expect such legislation to be considered in the future. although we cannot currently predict with any certainty what form these future regulations will take, the stringency of the regulations or when they will become effective, we 31 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2012 form 10-k do believe that future governmental legislation and/or regulation may require us to limit or control greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, purchase allowances for such emissions or otherwise incur costs in connection with such emissions. while climate legislation has yet to be adopted, the epa is pursuing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions using its existing authority under the caa. in march 2010, the epa issued regulations governing the applicability of the caa's permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions to power plants and other commercial and industrial facilities. these rules became applicable to sources that are already subject to caa permitting requirements, as well as new and modified sources, during 2011. in march 2012, the epa proposed new source performance standards pertaining to greenhouse gas emissions from certain new power plants, including coal-fired plants, based on the performance of combined cycle natural gas-fueled generating plants. we believe this rule effectively prohibits new conventional coal-fired power plants. in june 2012, the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit upheld the epa ' authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. we expect the epa to attempt to address performance standards for existing generating units in 2013. any such regulations may impact how we operate our existing facilities . legislation to regulate greenhouse gas emissions and establish renewable and efficiency standards has also been considered on the state level. both wisconsin and michigan have adopted renewable portfolio standards and energy optimization (efficiency) targets. despite the united states supreme court's decision in connecticut v. american electric power co. , where the court ruled that the plaintiffs in that litigation did not have standing to claim nuisance due to the release of greenhouse gas into the atmosphere by the defendants, states and environmental groups have lawsuits pending against electric utilities and others to force reductions in greenhouse gas emissions based upon their contribution to the alleged public nuisance of climate change. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with any future legislation, regulation or order that requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any future legislation or regulation that may be adopted, either at the federal or state level, designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse impact on our electric generation and natural gas distribution operations. such regulation could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, and could adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. we continue to monitor the legislative, regulatory and legal developments in this area. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system. in addition, the act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. this provision and other requirements of the act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. successful implementation of 32 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2012 form 10-k our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, under competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. if our access to any of these markets were limited, or our cost of capital significantly increased, due to a rating downgrade, an economic downturn or uncertainty, prevailing market conditions, concerns over foreign economic conditions and/or the ability of foreign governments and central banks to respond to changing economic conditions, a negative view of the utility industry, failures of financial institutions or other factors, our ability to implement our business plan could be limited which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. any economic downturn or disruption of national or international financial markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products. adverse economic conditions in our service territories and/or decreased demand for products produced in our service area could cause a reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. we would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted. our service territories have been impacted by the slow economy the country has been experiencing over the past several years. as a result, we continue to experience electric and natural gas sales below historical trends. poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. our cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benefit plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets as experienced in prior periods may increase our funding requirements. changes in interest rates affect plan liabilities - as rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could increase our funding requirements. changes in demographics, such as an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase our funding requirements. changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. we are facing rising medical costs for both active and retired employees. it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. if we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. a loss for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses not covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7 of this report, as well as note k -- derivative instruments and note l -- fair value measurements in the notes to consolidated financial statements, for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 70 wisconsin energy corporation 2012 form 10-krisk factors we are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the sec from time to time, when making an investment decision. risks related to legislation and regulation our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to regulation by the pscw of retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to regulation by the mpsc of various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except the issuance of securities in the ordinary course of business, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates in the ordinary course of business. further, wisconsin electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by ferc, and ferc also regulates our wholesale power service practices, electric reliability requirements and accounting, and participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we are obligated to comply in good faith with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. if it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the rates we are allowed to charge our customers for electric, natural gas and steam services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. within our regulated energy segment, approximately 87% of our 2013 electric revenues were regulated by the pscw, 4% were regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues were regulated by the ferc. all of our natural gas and steam revenues are regulated by the pscw. rate regulation is based on providing an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent on regulatory action and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. in addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable return on equity. we defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured, and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. if recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be charged to income in the current period and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs. governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. these permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other 25 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. our operations are subject to extensive environmental legislation and regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide (co 2 ), sulfur dioxide (so 2 ), nitrogen oxide (no x ), fine particulates and mercury; water discharges; and management of hazardous, toxic and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. the epa has adopted and is in the process of implementing regulations governing the emission of no x , so 2 , fine particulate matter (pm 2.5 ), mercury and other air pollutants under the clean air act (caa) through the national ambient air quality standards (naaqs), the mercury and air toxics standards (mats) rule and other air quality regulations . in addition, the epa has proposed rules governing cooling water intake structures at our power plants and revisions to the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under the clean water act (cwa). the epa also adopted the cross - state air pollution rule (csapr), which provides for limits on the interstate transport of no x and so 2 emissions. the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit vacated the csapr; however, the epa successfully petitioned the united states supreme court, who heard the case in december 2013. a decision is expected by june 2014. therefore, there is still substantial uncertainty as to what capital expenditures may ultimately be required to comply with these regulations. we continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. we expect that additional environmental controls will be required at pipp to meet the new environmental standards, and are currently analyzing several environmental compliance options. in addition, we announced plans to convert the fuel source for vapp from coal to natural gas. we currently expect the cost of this conversion to be between $65 million and $70 million, excluding afudc. these and other compliance costs we expect to incur over the next three years are included in the table under "capital expenditures" in the liquidity and capital resources section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and further regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. additional environmental legislation and regulation and the related compliance costs could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions . if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the wdnr has issued a notice of violation (nov) to wisconsin electric alleging violations of certain environmental rules at our paris generating station (psgs). an adverse outcome in these matters could require capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of penalties. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain of our current and former facilities, and at third-party owned sites. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. 26 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. if we fail (or failed) to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions continues to be a top priority for the president's administration. in june 2013, the president issued a presidential memorandum instructing the epa to, among other things, issue rules pertaining to greenhouse gas emissions from both new and existing plants. in june 2012, the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit upheld the epa ' authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. the epa is pursuing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions using its existing authority under the caa. in september 2013, the epa withdrew its 2012 proposed new source performance standards greenhouse gas emissions rule , and issued new proposed rules with greenhouse gas limits for new fossil fueled power plants. the rule would not apply to certain natural gas fueled peaking plants, biomass units or oil fueled stationary combustion turbines. based upon currently available technology and the emission limits in the proposed rule, we believe that this rule, if promulgated, would effectively prohibit new conventional coal-fired power plants. with respect to existing generating units, the epa has indicated that it intends to issue a proposed rule in june 2014, a final rule by june 2015 and require state implementation plans (sips) to be submitted by june 30, 2016. any such regulations may impact how we operate our existing facilities, particularly our fossil fueled power plants and new biomass facility , and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition . legislation to regulate greenhouse gas emissions and establish renewable and efficiency standards has also been considered on the state level. both wisconsin and michigan have adopted renewable portfolio standards and energy optimization (efficiency) targets. despite the united states supreme court's decision in connecticut v. american electric power co. , where the court ruled that the plaintiffs in that litigation did not have standing to claim nuisance due to the release of greenhouse gas into the atmosphere by the defendants, states and environmental groups have lawsuits pending against electric utilities and others to force reductions in greenhouse gas emissions based upon their contribution to the alleged public nuisance of climate change. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with any legislation, regulation or order that requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any legislation or regulation that may be adopted, either at the federal or state level, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse impact on our electric generation and natural gas distribution operations. such regulation could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, and could adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. we may face significant costs if coal combustion products are regulated as hazardous waste. we currently have a program of beneficial utilization for substantially all of our coal combustion products, including fly ash, bottom ash and gypsum, which minimizes the need for disposal in specially-designed landfills. both wisconsin and michigan have regulations governing the use and disposal of these materials. in 2010, the epa issued draft rules for public comment proposing two alternative rules for regulating coal combustion products, one of which would classify the materials as hazardous waste. if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our current program. if coal combustion products are classified as hazardous waste and we terminate our coal combustion products utilization program, we could be required to dispose of the coal combustion products at a significant cost to the company, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we anticipate that the epa could take action on this matter by the end of 2014. 27 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k wisconsin electric could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. wisconsin electric is subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical and physical and cybersecurity assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject wisconsin electric to higher operating costs. while wisconsin electric passed the cybersecurity and operational audits mandated by the north american electric reliability corporation in 2013, if it were ever found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards it could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. energy conservation and rate increases could negatively impact financial results. customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity, natural gas and steam in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices and/or individual conservation efforts. in addition, wisconsin and michigan have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. to the extent there is any regulatory lag to adjust rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures, these measures could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, any higher costs that are collected through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, natural gas or steam, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, the act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. this provision and other requirements of the act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. risks related to the operation of our business our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; cyber security threats; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. a decrease in revenues from these facilities or an increase in operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations. our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. customer growth and energy use can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan, including job and income growth. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. population declines and/or business closings in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth has a negative impact on our results of 28 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k operations and cash flow and could expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills. energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects. we expect to spend an aggregate of between $3.2 billion and $3.5 billion during the period 2014 to 2018 on capital investments in our utility and non-utility energy business. these types of construction projects are subject to many of the usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the ability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials; the ability of the contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable law or regulations; other governmental actions; and events in the global economy. certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. in the event we receive approval, total costs of a project may be higher than estimated and/or higher than amounts approved by our regulators, and there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to recover these additional costs in rates. severe weather events, such as floods, droughts, tornadoes and blizzards, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of our facilities. severe weather events could result in substantial damage to our electric generating and gas distribution facilities, as well as atc's transmission lines. our hydroelectric generation operations could be adversely affected if there is a significant change in water levels in their respective waterways. in addition, a significant reduction in water levels in waterways that supply cooling water to our power plants, whether by drought or otherwise, could restrict or prevent the operation of such facilities. in the event we experience any of these weather events or other natural disaster, recovery of any costs in excess of any reserves or applicable insurance is subject to the approval of the pscw and/or mpsc. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover any such costs or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any denial or delay in recovery of any such costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, damages resulting from severe weather events within our service territories may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity and natural gas for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. advances in technology could make our electric generating facilities less competitive. we generate power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive. it is possible that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station power electric production. if these technologies became cost competitive and achieved economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses. 29 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k under our current rate structure, widespread adoption of distributed generation by our electric customers could increase the cost of service for our remaining customers. increases in our rates could contribute to slower than anticipated customer growth and reduced demand for electricity, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could be the subject of cyber intrusions that disrupt our electric generation and gas distribution operations and/or result in security breaches that expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information, litigation and potential liability. we operate in an industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional transmission grid. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information including personal information about our customers and employees. cyber intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for the electric and gas distribution systems, could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric generation and/or gas distribution operations. any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches. furthermore, we may need to obtain more expensive purchased power to meet customer demand for electricity if our electric generating facilities are unable to operate at full capacity as a result of a cyber intrusion. any resulting loss of revenue or increase in expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. in addition, any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, stockholder, employee or proprietary data as a result of cyber intrusion or otherwise could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers, stockholders and regulators, among others. at this time, we are not aware of any cyber intrusion or security breach of our systems. internet - based attacks on critical u.s. energy infrastructure are occurring with more frequency. in february 2013, the president issued an executive order providing for intelligence gathering and information exchange on cyber attacks and cyber threats to privately owned critical infrastructure. the framework is being developed jointly by the government and industry. we continue to strengthen our electronic systems. however, as cyber attacks become more sophisticated, we may be required to incur significant costs to strengthen our information and electronic control systems from outside intrusions and/or to obtain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to wisconsin energy, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. our subsidiaries also have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of the bank back-up credit facilities for wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our electric generation and gas distribution facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities. a terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 30 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact our results of operations. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure of a counterparty to one of our power purchase agreements could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we have entered into several power purchase agreements with non-affiliated companies, and continue to look for additional opportunities to enter into these agreements. currently, sales through power purchase agreements are responsible for approximately 4.5% of our electric revenues. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under the power purchase agreements. although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more purchasers could fail to perform their obligations under the power purchase agreements. if this were to occur, we would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers . to the extent there is any regulatory lag to adjust rates, a customer default under a power purchase agreement could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. our revenues could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets. ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter (otc). technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. we currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, under competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. if our access to any of these markets were limited, or our cost of capital significantly increased, due to a rating downgrade, an economic downturn or uncertainty, prevailing market conditions, concerns over foreign economic conditions and/or the ability of foreign governments and central banks to respond to changing economic conditions, changes in tax policy, war or the threat of war, a negative view of the utility industry, failures of financial institutions or other factors, our ability to implement our business plan could be limited which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 31 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. any economic downturn or disruption of national or international financial markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products. adverse economic conditions in our service territories and/or decreased demand for products produced in our service area could cause a reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. we would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted. our service territories have been impacted by the slow economy the country has been experiencing over the past several years. as a result, we expect to continue experiencing electric sales below historical trends. a downgrade in the credit ratings of wec or any of its subsidiaries could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact wisconsin energy's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, without limitation, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. wisconsin energy or any of its subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in their ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or wisconsin energy and/or its subsidiaries has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if wisconsin energy or its subsidiaries are downgraded by the rating agencies, their borrowing costs could increase, funding sources could decrease and, for any downgrade to below investment grade, collateral requirements may be triggered in several contracts. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. it is uncertain whether retail access might be implemented in wisconsin. michigan has adopted retail choice. under michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. the law limits customer choice to 10% of our michigan retail load. the two iron ore mines are excluded from this cap. when a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. the mines, which we served on an interruptible tariff rate, switched to an alternative electric supplier effective september 1, 2013. in addition, other smaller retail customers have switched to an alternative electric supplier. sales to these customers, including the mines, totaled 2,173.6 gwh, or 7.6% of our retail electric sales for the year ended december 31, 2012. previously, the owner of the mines announced that they would shut down the empire mine by the end of 2014 or beginning of 2015. we negotiated an ssr agreement with miso and took other steps to mitigate the loss of these sales. although the financial impact in future periods is uncertain, we currently estimate that these losses will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in 2014. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a locational marginal price (lmp) that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets, we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that was simultaneously co-optimized with its existing energy markets. these market designs have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the market and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. 32 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k an increase in natural gas costs could negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. wisconsin electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. disruption in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution can increase the cost of natural gas, as can international market conditions and demand for natural gas. higher natural gas costs can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. additionally, high natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements and could adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable. for wisconsin customers, wisconsin electric bears the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical two percent fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in its rate structure. our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar recovery of the cost of natural gas, subject to tolerance bands and prudency review. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to mitigate an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory will be adequate to fully mitigate all potential reductions in supply. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us, or we may experience operational problems or constraints that prevent us from taking delivery. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. furthermore, demand for coal can impact its availability and cost. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal units and replace this lost generation through additional power purchases in the miso market. there is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates. our electric generation frequently exceeds our customer load. when this occurs, we generally sell the excess generation into the miso market. if we are unable to run our lower cost units we may lose the ability to engage in these opportunity sales, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage commodity exposures. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas must be approved by the pscw, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. our cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benefit plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets may increase our funding requirements. changes in interest rates affect plan liabilities - as rates 33 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2013 form 10-k decrease, the liabilities increase, which could increase our funding requirements. changes in demographics, such as an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase our funding requirements. changes made to the plans may also impact current and future pension costs. we are facing rising medical costs for both active and retired employees. it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than anticipated. if we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7 of this report, as well as note l -- derivative instruments and note m -- fair value measurements in the notes to consolidated financial statements, for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 71 wisconsin energy corporation 2013 form 10-krisk factors we are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the sec from time to time, when making an investment decision. risks related to legislation and regulation our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to regulation by the pscw of retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to regulation by the mpsc of various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except the issuance of securities in the ordinary course of business, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates in the ordinary course of business. further, wisconsin electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by ferc, and ferc also regulates our wholesale power service practices, electric reliability requirements and accounting, and participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we are obligated to comply in good faith with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. if it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the rates we are allowed to charge our customers for electric, natural gas and steam services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. within our regulated energy segment, approximately 85% of our 2014 electric revenues were regulated by the pscw, 2% were regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues were regulated by the ferc. all of our natural gas and steam revenues are regulated by the pscw. rate regulation is based on providing an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent on regulatory action and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. in addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable return on equity. we defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured, and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. if recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be charged to income in the current period and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs. governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. these permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other 25 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. our operations are subject to extensive environmental legislation and regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide (co 2 ), sulfur dioxide (so 2 ), nitrogen oxide (no x ), fine particulates and mercury; water discharges; and management of hazardous, toxic and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. the epa has adopted and is in the process of implementing regulations governing the emission of no x , so 2 , fine particulate matter (pm 2.5 ), mercury and other air pollutants under the clean air act (caa) through the national ambient air quality standards (naaqs), the mercury and air toxics standards (mats) rule and other air quality regulations . the epa has also indicated that it intends to propose rules later this year that will expand traditional federal jurisdiction over navigable waters and related wetlands for permitting and other regulatory matters. in addition, the epa has finalized rules governing cooling water intake structures at our power plants and proposed revisions to the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under the clean water act (cwa). the epa also adopted the cross - state air pollution rule (csapr), which provides for limits on the interstate transport of no x and so 2 emissions. in april 2014, the united states supreme court issued a decision largely upholding csapr and remanding it for further proceedings. in october 2014, the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit issued a decision that cleared the way for the epa to begin implementing csapr on january 1, 2015. although the epa has finalized some parts of the rule, there are several items that still need to be addressed. therefore, there is still uncertainty as to what capital expenditures may ultimately be required to comply with these regulations. we continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. for example, we are in the process of converting the fuel source for vapp from coal to natural gas. we currently expect the cost of this conversion to be between $65 million and $70 million, excluding afudc. these and other compliance costs we expect to incur over the next three years are included in the table under "capital expenditures" in the liquidity and capital resources section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. additional environmental legislation and regulation and the related compliance costs could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions . if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain of our current and former facilities, and at third-party owned sites. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements has increased generally throughout the u.s. in particular, personal injury, property damage and other claims for damages alleged to have been caused 26 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k by coal combustion residuals and alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. in addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. if we fail (or failed) to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. federal, state, regional and international authorities have undertaken efforts to limit greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. the regulation of ghg emissions continues to be a top priority for the president's administration. the epa is pursuing regulation of ghg emissions under the caa. the epa issued new rules with ghg limits for new fossil fueled power plants that became effective in june 2014. the rule does not apply to certain natural gas fueled peaking plants, biomass units or oil fueled stationary combustion turbines. with respect to existing generating units, the epa issued a proposed rule in june 2014, and is expected to issue a final rule by mid-summer 2015. the proposed rule would require states to submit state plans as early as june 30, 2016. single states requesting a one year extension would be required to submit state plans by june 30, 2017, and states that are part of a multi-state plan that request a two year extension would be required to submit state plans by june 30, 2018. we are in the process of reviewing the proposed rule to determine the potential impacts to our operations. we expect that these regulations as currently proposed would impact how we operate our existing facilities, particularly our fossil fueled power plants and biomass facility, and could have a material adverse impact on our operating costs. legislation to regulate ghg emissions and establish renewable and efficiency standards has also been considered on the state level. both wisconsin and michigan have adopted renewable portfolio standards and energy optimization (efficiency) targets. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with the impending regulations that will require a reduction in ghg emissions or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. these and any other related regulations may cause our environmental compliance spending over the next several years to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. any legislation or regulation that may ultimately be adopted, either at the federal or state level, designed to reduce ghg emissions could have a material adverse impact on our electric generation and natural gas distribution operations. such regulation could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, and could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions. these regulations could also adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates. wisconsin electric could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. wisconsin electric is subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cybersecurity assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject wisconsin electric to higher operating costs. if wisconsin electric were ever found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards it could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exceptions. 27 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k in addition, the act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. this provision and other requirements of the act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. a decrease in the return on equity earned by participants in miso could have a negative impact on our results of operations. in june 2014, ferc issued an order revising its methodology for determining the base return on equity for jurisdictional electric utilities, including transmission owners. ferc expects its new methodology will narrow the "zone" of reasonable returns on equity. ferc also indicated that it will continue its policy that an electric utility's total return on equity is limited to the zone of reasonableness. ferc has set a complaint against miso and the transmission owners participating in miso challenging the owners' 12.38% base return on equity for hearing. there is a risk that ferc would reduce the allowed return on equity atc receives as a transmission owning member of miso, which ultimately could reduce our earnings with respect to our investment in atc. in fact, during the fourth quarter of 2014, atc reduced its earnings to reflect the potential for lower allowed returns on equity. risks related to the operation of our business our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and distribution, as well as our gas distribution, facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; cyber security threats; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, pandemic health events such as influenzas or other similar occurrences. unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. a decrease in revenues from these facilities or an increase in operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations. our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. customer growth and energy use can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan, including job and income growth. customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. population declines and/or business closings in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth has a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow and could expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills. energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. 28 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure and electric generating facilities. we expect to spend an aggregate of between $3.3 billion and $3.5 billion during the period 2015 to 2019 on capital investments in our utility and non-utility energy business. these types of construction projects are subject to many of the usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the ability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials; the ability of the contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable law or regulations; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy. certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. in the event we receive approval, total costs of a project may be higher than estimated and/or higher than amounts approved by our regulators, and there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to recover these additional costs in rates. severe weather events, such as floods, droughts, tornadoes and blizzards, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of our facilities. severe weather events could result in substantial damage to our electric generating and distribution facilities, as well as our gas distribution facilities and atc's transmission lines. our hydroelectric generation operations could be adversely affected if there is a significant change in water levels in their respective waterways. in addition, a significant reduction in water levels in waterways that supply cooling water to our power plants, whether by drought or otherwise, could restrict or prevent the operation of such facilities. in the event we experience any of these weather events or other natural disaster, recovery of any costs in excess of any reserves or applicable insurance is subject to the approval of the pscw and/or mpsc. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover any such costs or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. any denial or delay in recovery of any such costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, damages resulting from severe weather events within our service territories may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity and natural gas for extended periods. any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. advances in technology could make our electric generating facilities less competitive. we generate power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive. it is possible that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station power electric production. if these technologies became cost competitive and achieved economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses. we could be the subject of cyber intrusions that disrupt our electric generation and gas distribution operations and/or result in security breaches that expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information, litigation and potential liability. we face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against our generation facilities and electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, as well as our information and technology systems and network infrastructure, which could adversely impact our ability to generate, support and deliver electricity and natural gas, or otherwise operate our facilities in the most efficient manner or at all. we operate in an industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional transmission grid. in addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information including personal identification information 29 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k about our customers and employees and other confidential information. we face on-going threats to our assets and technology systems. despite the implementation of strong security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to human error or physical or cyber attacks. if our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged or be breached and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may unable to perform critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. cyber intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for the electric and gas distribution systems, could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric generation and/or gas distribution operations. any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches. furthermore, we may need to obtain more expensive purchased power to meet customer demand for electricity if our electric generating facilities are unable to operate at full capacity as a result of a cyber intrusion. any resulting loss of revenue or increase in expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. in addition, any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, stockholder, employee or proprietary data as a result of cyber intrusion or otherwise could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers, stockholders and regulators, among others. in addition to lost revenues and increased costs that we could incur as a result of a cyber attack, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. we could also need to obtain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to wisconsin energy, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. our subsidiaries also have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of the bank back-up credit facilities for wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our electric generation and gas distribution facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities. a terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact our results of operations. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 30 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k failure of a counterparty to one of our power purchase agreements could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we have entered into several power purchase agreements with non-affiliated companies, and continue to look for additional opportunities to enter into these agreements. currently, sales through power purchase agreements are responsible for approximately 7.8% of our electric revenues. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under the power purchase agreements. although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more purchasers could fail to perform their obligations under the power purchase agreements. if this were to occur, we would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers . to the extent there is any regulatory lag to adjust rates, a customer default under a power purchase agreement could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with changing customer behaviors, including energy conservation and the adoption of new technologies. changes in customer behaviors in response to changing conditions and preferences or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the consumption of electricity. customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity, natural gas and steam in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices and/or individual conservation efforts. with respect to customer behavior, federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy. in addition, wisconsin and michigan have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. many new technologies use less energy than their older counterparts. on the other hand, new technologies such as electric vehicles can create additional demand for energy. as part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer behavior, government programs, energy efficiency mandates and new technologies, but risks remain. any of these matters, as well as any regulatory lag to adjust rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, any higher costs that are collected through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, natural gas or steam, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. our revenues could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets. ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter (otc). technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. we currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, under competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. if our access to any of these markets were limited, or our cost of capital significantly increased, due 31 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k to a rating downgrade, an economic downturn or uncertainty, prevailing market conditions, concerns over foreign economic conditions and/or the ability of foreign governments and central banks to respond to changing economic conditions, changes in tax policy, war or the threat of war, the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries, a negative view of the utility industry, bankruptcy or financial distress at a financial institution or sovereign entity or other factors, our ability to implement our business plan could be limited which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. any economic downturn or disruption of national or international financial markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products. adverse economic conditions in our service territories and/or decreased demand for products produced in our service area could cause a reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. we would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted. a downgrade in the credit ratings of wec or any of its subsidiaries could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact wisconsin energy's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, without limitation, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. wisconsin energy or any of its subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in their ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or wisconsin energy and/or its subsidiaries has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. if wisconsin energy or its subsidiaries are downgraded by the rating agencies, their borrowing costs could increase, funding sources could decrease and, for any downgrade to below investment grade, collateral requirements may be triggered in several contracts. an increase in natural gas costs could negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. wisconsin electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. disruption in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution can increase the cost of natural gas, as can international market conditions and demand for natural gas. in addition, the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. higher natural gas costs can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. additionally, high natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements and could adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable. for wisconsin customers, wisconsin electric bears the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical two percent fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in its rate structure. our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar recovery of the cost of natural gas, subject to tolerance bands and prudency review. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to mitigate an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory will be adequate to fully mitigate all potential reductions in supply. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us, or we may experience operational problems or constraints that prevent us from taking delivery. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. furthermore, demand for coal can impact its availability and cost. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to reduce generation at our 32 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k coal units and replace this lost generation through additional power purchases in the miso market. there is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed which could adversely affect our cash flows. our electric generation frequently exceeds our customer load. when this occurs, we generally sell the excess generation into the miso market. if we are unable to run our lower cost units we may lose the ability to engage in these opportunity sales, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage commodity exposures. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas must be approved by the pscw, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. it is uncertain whether retail access might be implemented in wisconsin. michigan has adopted retail choice. under michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. the law limits customer choice to 10% of our michigan retail load. the two iron ore mines located in the upper peninsula of michigan are excluded from this cap. when a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a locational marginal price (lmp) that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets, we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that was simultaneously co-optimized with its existing energy markets. these market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the market and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations. we have significant obligations related to pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. a decline in the market value of these assets may increase our funding requirements. changes in interest rates affect plan liabilities - as rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could increase our funding requirements. changes in demographics, such as an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase our funding requirements. changes made to the plans may also impact 33 wisconsin energy corporation item 1a. risk factors - (cont'd) 2014 form 10-k current and future pension costs. in addition, it is possible that medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. if we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted. our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. risks related to our proposed acquisition of integrys we may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the acquisition of integrys or such approvals may contain material restrictions or conditions. completion of the acquisition of integrys remains subject to the approval of various government agencies. we cannot provide assurance that we will obtain all required consents or approvals, or that the regulatory consents or approvals will not impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the acquisition, including restrictions on the business, operations or financial performance of the combined company. these conditions or changes could also delay or materially and adversely affect the business results and financial condition of the combined company. while the acquisition of integrys is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially adversely affect our operations and the future of our business. the merger agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the acquisition of integrys, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent integrys' prior written consent. we may find that these and other contractual arrangements in the merger agreement may delay or prevent us from or limit our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management thinks they may be advisable. the pendency of the acquisition may also divert management's attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations. if any of these effects were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our operations and the future of our business, regardless of whether the acquisition is completed. if completed, the acquisition of integrys may not achieve its intended results. we entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the acquisition of integrys would result in various benefits. if the acquisition is completed, achieving the anticipated benefits will be subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether wisconsin energy's and integrys' businesses can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could adversely affect our business, financial results and share price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources -- market risks and other significant risks in item 7 of this report, as well as note l -- derivative instruments and note m -- fair value measurements in the notes to consolidated financial statements, for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 71 wisconsin energy corporation 2014 form 10-krisk factors 23 risk factors and those identified below: factors affecting utility operations such as catastrophic weather-related damage, environmental incidents, unplanned facility outages and repairs and maintenance, and electric transmission or natural gas pipeline system constraints; factors affecting the demand for electricity and natural gas, including political developments, unusual weather, changes in economic conditions, customer growth and declines, commodity prices, energy conservation efforts, and continued adoption of distributed generation by customers; the timing, resolution, and impact of rate cases and negotiations, including recovery of deferred and current costs and the ability to earn a reasonable return on investment, and other regulatory decisions impacting our regulated businesses; the ability to obtain and retain customers, including wholesale customers, due to increased competition in our electric and natural gas markets from retail choice and alternative electric suppliers, and continued industry consolidation; the timely completion of capital projects within budgets, as well as the recovery of the related costs through rates; the impact of federal, state, and local legislative and regulatory changes, including changes in rate-setting policies or procedures, tax law changes, including the extension of bonus depreciation, deregulation and restructuring of the electric and/or natural gas utility industries, transmission or distribution system operation, the approval process for new construction, reliability standards, pipeline integrity and safety standards, allocation of energy assistance, and energy efficiency mandates; federal and state legislative and regulatory changes relating to the environment, including climate change and other environmental regulations impacting generation facilities and renewable energy standards, the enforcement of these laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation of permit conditions by regulatory agencies, and the recovery of associated remediation and compliance costs; the risks associated with changing commodity prices, particularly natural gas and electricity, and the availability of sources of fossil fuel, natural gas, purchased power, materials needed to operate environmental controls at our electric generating facilities, or water supply due to high demand, shortages, transportation problems, nonperformance by electric energy or natural gas suppliers under existing power purchase or natural gas supply contracts, or other developments; changes in credit ratings, interest rates, and our ability to access the capital markets, caused by volatility in the global credit markets, our capitalization structure, and market perceptions of the utility industry, us, or any of our subsidiaries; costs and effects of litigation, administrative proceedings, investigations, settlements, claims, and inquiries; restrictions imposed by various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances; 2015 form 10-k 1 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the risk of financial loss, including increases in bad debt expense, associated with the inability of our customers, counterparties, and affiliates to meet their obligations; changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; the direct or indirect effect on our business resulting from terrorist incidents, the threat of terrorist incidents, and cyber intrusion, including the failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, the associated costs to protect our assets and personal information, and the costs to notify affected persons to mitigate their information security concerns; the financial performance of atc and its corresponding contribution to our earnings, as well as the ability of atc and datc to obtain the required approvals for their transmission projects; the investment performance of our employee benefit plan assets, as well as unanticipated changes in related actuarial assumptions, which could impact future funding requirements; factors affecting the employee workforce, including loss of key personnel, internal restructuring, work stoppages, and collective bargaining agreements and negotiations with union employees; advances in technology that result in competitive disadvantages and create the potential for impairment of existing assets; the terms and conditions of the governmental and regulatory approvals of the acquisition of integrys that could reduce anticipated benefits and our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the combined company; the risk associated with the values of goodwill and other intangible assets and their possible impairment; potential business strategies to acquire and dispose of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed timely or within budgets, and legislative or regulatory restrictions or caps on non-utility acquisitions, investments or projects, including the state of wisconsin's public utility holding company law; the timing and outcome of any audits, disputes, and other proceedings related to taxes; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and other considerations disclosed elsewhere herein and in other reports we file with the sec or in other publicly disseminated written documents. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 2015 form 10-k 2 wec energy group, inc. table of contents part i item 1. business a. introduction in this report, when we refer to "us," "we," "our," or "ours," we are referring to wec energy group, inc. the term "utility" refers to the regulated activities of the electric and natural gas utility companies, while the term "non-utility" refers to the activities of the electric and natural gas utility companies that are not regulated, as well as we power. the term "nonregulated" refers to activities at wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, the pellc holding company, wispark, bostco, wisvest, wecc, wbs, pdl, and itf. references to "notes" are to the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. for more information about our business operations, including financial and geographic information about each reportable business segment, see note 24, segment information , and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations. wec energy group, inc. we were incorporated in the state of wisconsin in 1981 and became a diversified holding company in 1986. we maintain our principal executive offices in milwaukee, wisconsin. our wholly owned subsidiaries provide regulated natural gas and electricity, as well as nonregulated renewable energy. another subsidiary, itf, provides cng products and services and was recorded as held for sale as of december 31, 2015. see note 3, dispositions, for more information . in addition, we have an approximately 60% equity interest in atc (an electric transmission company operating in illinois, michigan, minnesota, and wisconsin). at december 31, 2015, we had six reportable segments which are discussed below. for additional information about our reportable segments, see note 24, segment information . acquisition on june 29, 2015, wisconsin energy corporation acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of integrys and changed its name to wec energy group, inc. for additional information on this acquisition, see note 2, acquisition . available information our annual and periodic filings with the sec are available, free of charge, on our website, www.wecenergygroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may obtain materials we filed with or furnished to the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. to obtain information on the operation of the public reference room, you may call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. you may also view information filed or furnished electronically with the sec at the sec's website at www.sec.gov . b. utility energy operations wisconsin segment electric utility operations for the periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k, our electric utility operations included operations of wisconsin electric for all periods and operations for wps beginning july 1, 2015, due to the acquisition of integrys and its subsidiaries. wisconsin electric, which is the largest electric utility in the state of wisconsin, generates and distributes electric energy to approximately 1,140,100 customers located in southeastern wisconsin (including the metropolitan milwaukee area), east central wisconsin, northern wisconsin, and michigan's upper peninsula. wps generates and distributes electric energy to approximately 449,200 customers located in northeastern wisconsin and michigan's upper peninsula. 2015 form 10-k 3 wec energy group, inc. table of contents electric utility operating statistics the following table shows certain electric utility operating statistics for the past three years: year ended december 31 2015 (1) 2014 2013 operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 1,398.5 $ 1,199.3 $ 1,208.6 small commercial and industrial 1,234.3 1,052.9 1,048.0 large commercial and industrial 857.6 637.0 711.9 other 26.9 23.0 23.4 total retail revenues 3,517.3 2,912.2 2,991.9 wholesale 181.4 131.9 143.7 resale 248.7 264.1 143.2 other operating revenues 77.5 87.8 28.4 total 4,024.9 3,396.0 3,307.2 electric customer choice (2) 2.6 5.1 1.5 total operating revenues $ 4,027.5 $ 3,401.1 $ 3,308.7 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 1,414.1 1,015.0 1,010.5 small commercial and industrial 171.1 115.4 114.6 large commercial and industrial 1.0 0.7 0.7 other 3.1 2.5 2.6 total customers 1,589.3 1,133.6 1,128.4 customers average (in thousands) 1,584.4 1,130.7 1,126.9 (1) includes the operations of wps beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. (2) represents distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in michigan. electric sales our electric energy deliveries included supply and distribution sales to retail and wholesale customers and distribution sales to those customers who switched to an alternative electric supplier. in 2015, retail electric revenues accounted for 87.3% of total electric operating revenues, while wholesale (including resale) electric revenues accounted for 10.7% of total electric operating revenues. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations wisconsin segment contribution to operating income for information on mwh sales by customer class. our electric utilities are authorized to provide retail electric service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities, and in certain territories in the state of michigan pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities. our electric utilities buy and sell wholesale electric power by participating in the miso energy markets. the cost of our generation offered into the miso energy markets, compared to our competitors, affects how often our generating units are dispatched and how we buy and sell power. for more information, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources industry restructuring. large electric retail customers we provide electric utility service to a diversified base of customers in such industries as mining, paper, foundry, food products and machinery production, health services, governmental, and large retail chains. in february 2015, our largest retail electric customer, the owner of two iron ore mines located in michigan's upper peninsula, returned as a customer after choosing an alternative electric supplier in september 2013. wisconsin electric entered into a special contract with each of the mines to provide full requirements electric service through december 31, 2019. in 2015, we deferred, and we expect to continue to defer, the margin from those sales and will apply these amounts for the benefit of wisconsin retail electric customers in a future rate proceeding. for more information, 2015 form 10-k 4 wec energy group, inc. table of contents see note 23, michigan settlement , and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources industry restructuring. wholesale customers we provide wholesale electric service to various customers, including electric cooperatives, municipal joint action agencies, other investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities, and energy marketers. wholesale sales accounted for 6.0% , 5.3%, and 5.9% of total electric energy sales during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. wholesale revenues accounted for 4.5% , 3.9%, and 4.3% of total electric operating revenues during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. resale the majority of our sales for resale are sold to one rto, miso, at market rates based on availability of our generation and rto demand. resale sales accounted for 20.9% , 18.5%, and 13.3% of total electric energy sales during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. resale revenues accounted for 6.2% , 7.8%, and 4.3% of total electric operating revenues during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. electric sales growth our service territory experienced slightly declining weather-normalized retail electric sales in 2015 as positive customer growth was more than offset by reduced volumes related to lower use per customer. we currently forecast retail electric sales volumes, excluding the two iron ore mines, to grow at a compound annual rate of between flat and 0.5% over the next five years, assuming normal weather. in addition, we forecast associated electric peak demand, excluding the two iron ore mines, to grow at a compound annual rate of between 0.5% to 1.0% over the next five years, also assuming normal weather. the owner of the two iron ore mines has announced its intention to shut down one of the mines in 2017. the potential loss of retail electric sales associated with this mine is estimated at approximately 2% of our annual total retail electric sales. electric generation and supply mix our electric supply strategy is to provide our customers with energy from plants using a diverse fuel mix that is expected to maintain a stable, reliable, and affordable supply of electricity. we supply a significant amount of electricity to our customers from power plants that we own. we supplement our internally generated power supply with long-term power purchase agreements, including the point beach power purchase agreement discussed in power purchase commitments below, and through spot purchases in the miso energy markets. our rated capacity by fuel type as of december 31 is shown below. for more information on our electric generation facilities, see item 2. properties. rated capacity in mw (1) 2015 2014 2013 coal 4,955 3,707 3,822 natural gas: combined cycle 1,636 1,082 1,082 steam turbine (2) 305 118 natural gas/oil peaking units (3) 1,412 962 962 renewables (4) 269 155 155 total rated capacity by fuel type 8,577 6,024 6,021 (1) rated capacity is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. we are a summer peaking electric utility, and amounts are based on expected capacity ratings for the following summer. the values were established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. (2) the natural gas steam turbine represents the rated capacity associated with the vapp units, which were converted from coal to natural gas in 2014 and 2015, as well as weston unit 2, which was converted from coal to natural gas in 2015. (3) the dual-fueled facilities generally burn oil only if natural gas is not available due to constraints on the natural gas pipeline and/or at the local natural gas distribution company that delivers natural gas to the plants. (4) includes hydroelectric, biomass, and wind generation. 2015 form 10-k 5 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the table below indicates our sources of electric energy supply as a percentage of sales for the three years ended december 31, as well as estimates for 2016 : estimate actual 2016 2015 2014 2013 company-owned generation units: coal 49.6 % 51.5 % 55.2 % 53.6 % natural gas: combined cycle 18.7 % 14.6 % 8.7 % 10.1 % steam turbine 0.8 % 1.2 % 0.2 % % natural gas/oil peaking units 0.1 % 0.6 % 0.2 % 0.2 % renewables 3.5 % 3.4 % 3.8 % 3.3 % total company-owned generation units 72.7 % 71.3 % 68.1 % 67.2 % power purchase contracts: nuclear 16.6 % 20.5 % 25.4 % 27.1 % natural gas 2.5 % 1.4 % 2.1 % 2.1 % renewables 2.1 % 1.5 % 2.7 % 3.1 % other 2.9 % 3.5 % 0.9 % 0.5 % total power purchase contracts 24.1 % 26.9 % 31.1 % 32.8 % purchased power from miso 3.2 % 1.8 % 0.8 % % total purchased power 27.3 % 28.7 % 31.9 % 32.8 % total electric utility supply 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % coal-fired generation our coal-fired generation consists of nine operating plants with a rated capacity of 4,955 mw as of december 31, 2015 . for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. natural gas-fired generation our natural gas-fired generation consists of nine operating plants, including peaking units, with a rated capacity of 3,173 mw as of december 31, 2015 . for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. oil-fired generation fuel oil is used for combustion turbines at certain of our natural gas-fired plants as well as for ignition and flame stabilization at one of our coal-fired plants. our oil-fired generation had a rated capacity of 180 mw as of december 31, 2015 . we also have natural gas-fired peaking units with a rated capacity of 1,217 mw, which have the ability to burn oil if natural gas is not available due to delivery constraints. for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. renewable generation hydroelectric our hydroelectric generating system consists of 30 operating plants with a total installed capacity of 168 mw and a rated capacity of 146 mw as of december 31, 2015 . all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. wind we have six wind sites, consisting of 280 turbines, with an installed capacity of 447 mw and a rated capacity of 73 mw as of december 31, 2015. 2015 form 10-k 6 wec energy group, inc. table of contents biomass we constructed a biomass-fueled power plant at a rothschild, wisconsin paper mill site that went into commercial operation in november 2013. wood waste and wood shavings are used to produce a rated capacity of approximately 50 mw of electric power as well as steam to support the paper mill's operations. fuel for the power plant is supplied by both the paper mill and through contracts with biomass suppliers. electric system reliability the pscw requires us to maintain a planning reserve margin above our projected annual peak demand forecast to help ensure reliability of electric service to our customers. these planning reserve requirements are consistent with the miso calculated planning reserve margin. the pscw has a 14.5% reserve margin requirement for long-term planning (planning years two through ten). for short-term planning (planning year one), the pscw requires wisconsin utilities to follow the planning reserve margin established by miso. miso has a 14.3% reserve margin requirement from january 1, 2016, through may 31, 2016, and 15.2% for the remainder of 2016. the mpsc does not have minimum guidelines for future supply reserves. we had adequate capacity through company-owned generation units and power purchase contracts to meet the miso calculated planning reserve margin during 2015 and expect to have adequate capacity to meet the planning reserve margin requirements during 2016 . however, extremely hot weather, unexpected equipment failure or unavailability across the 15-state miso market footprint could require us to call upon load management procedures. load management procedures allow for the reduction of energy use through agreements with customers to directly shut off their equipment or through interruptible service, where customers agree to reduce their load in the case of an emergency interruption. fuel and purchased power costs our retail electric rates in wisconsin are established by the pscw and include base amounts for fuel and purchased power costs. the electric fuel rules set by the pscw allow us to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, under or over-collections of actual fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from the costs included in the rates charged to customers. for more information about the fuel rule, see item 1. business d. regulation. our average fuel and purchased power costs per mwh by fuel type were as follows for the years ended december 31: 2015 2014 2013 coal $ 25.57 $ 27.68 $ 27.97 natural gas combined cycle 17.66 40.64 32.22 natural gas/oil peaking units 56.99 129.83 83.95 purchased power 43.50 47.47 43.74 we purchase coal under long-term contracts, which helps with price stability. coal and associated transportation services have continued to see volatility in pricing due to changing domestic and world-wide demand for coal and the impacts of diesel costs, which are incorporated into fuel surcharges on rail transportation. certain of our coal transportation contracts contain fuel cost adjustments that are tied to changes in diesel fuel and crude oil prices. currently, diesel fuel contracts are not actively traded. therefore, we use financial heating oil contracts to mitigate risk related to diesel fuel prices. we purchase natural gas for our plants on the spot market from natural gas marketers, utilities, and producers, and we arrange for transportation of the natural gas to our plants. we have firm and interruptible transportation, as well as balancing and storage agreements, intended to support our plants' variable usage. wisconsin electric and wps both have a pscw-approved hedging program that allows them to hedge up to 75% of their potential risks related to fuel surcharge exposure. wisconsin electric and wps also have a program that allows them to hedge up to 65% and 75%, respectively, of their estimated natural gas use for electric generation in order to help manage their natural gas price risk. these hedging programs are generally implemented on a 36-month forward-looking basis. the results of all of these programs are reflected in the average costs of natural gas and purchased power. 2015 form 10-k 7 wec energy group, inc. table of contents coal supply we diversify the coal supply for our electric generating facilities and jointly-owned plants by purchasing coal from several mines in wyoming, as well as from various other states. for 2016 , approximately 78% of our total projected coal requirements of approximately 16 million tons are contracted under fixed-price contracts. see note 18, commitments and contingencies, for more information on amounts of coal purchases and coal deliveries under contract. the annual tonnage amounts contracted for 2016 through 2018 are as follows: (in thousands) annual tonnage 2016 13,281 2017 9,303 2018 5,153 coal deliveries all of our 2016 coal requirements are expected to be shipped by our owned or leased unit trains under existing transportation agreements. the unit trains transport the coal for electric generating facilities from mines in wyoming, pennsylvania, and montana. the coal is transported by train to our rail-served electric-generating facilities and to dock storage in superior, wisconsin, until needed by our lake vessel-served facilities. additional small volume agreements may also be used to supplement the normal coal supply for our facilities. midcontinent independent system operator costs in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso developed and operates the miso energy markets, which include its bid-based energy markets and ancillary services market. we are participants in the miso energy markets. in 2013, miso expanded its footprint to include entities in mississippi, arkansas, texas, and missouri, a region referred to as miso south. these changes have not had a material impact on our allocation of transmission costs, and we do not expect them to have a material impact in the future. for more information on miso, see item 1. business d. regulation. power purchase commitments we enter into short and long-term power purchase commitments to meet a portion of our anticipated electric energy supply needs. as of december 31, 2015 , our power purchase commitments with unaffiliated parties for the next five years is 1,432 mw per year. this amount includes 1,033 mw per year related to a long-term power purchase agreement for electricity generated by point beach. in addition, 234 mw per year relates to a long-term power purchase agreement under which we purchase power at a price determined monthly based on a formula tied to a natural gas price index. other matters seasonality our electric utility sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions. we sell more electricity during the summer months because of the residential cooling load. we continue to upgrade our electric distribution system, including substations, transformers, and lines, to meet the demand of our customers. our generating plants performed as expected during the warmest periods of the summer, and all power purchase commitments under firm contract were received. during this period, wisconsin electric did not require public appeals for conservation, and it did not interrupt or curtail service to non-firm customers who participate in load management programs. in addition, wps did not require any public appeals for conservation, and it did not interrupt or curtail service to non-firm customers who participate in load management programs for capacity reasons. however, wps did have service curtailments for economic reasons. competition our electric utilities face competition from various entities and other forms of energy sources available to customers, including self-generation by large industrial customers and alternative energy sources. our electric utilities compete with other utilities for sales to municipalities and cooperatives as well as with other utilities and marketers for wholesale electric business. 2015 form 10-k 8 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the retail electric utility market in wisconsin is regulated by the pscw. retail electric customers do not have the ability to choose their electric supplier, and it is uncertain when, if ever, retail electric choice might be implemented in wisconsin. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes, which could eventually lead to increased competition in wisconsin. the retail electric utility market in michigan remains open to competition with its retail choice program, which allows customers to remain with their regulated utility at regulated rates or choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. we continue providing distribution and customer service functions regardless of the customer's power supplier. environmental matters for information regarding environmental matters, especially as they relate to coal-fired generating facilities, see note 18, commitments and contingencies , and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources environmental matters. natural gas utility operations for the periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k, our wisconsin natural gas utility operations include wisconsin gas's and wisconsin electric's natural gas operations for all periods and wps's natural gas operations, including in the upper peninsula of michigan, beginning july 1, 2015, due to the acquisition of integrys and its subsidiaries. we are authorized to provide retail natural gas distribution service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities. we also transport customer-owned natural gas. together our natural gas distribution utilities are the largest in wisconsin, and we operate throughout the state, including the city of milwaukee and surrounding areas, northeastern wisconsin, and large areas of both central and western wisconsin. natural gas utility operating statistics the following table shows certain natural gas utility operating statistics at our wisconsin segment for the past three years: year ended december 31 2015 (1) 2014 2013 operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 696.2 $ 925.3 $ 712.6 commercial and industrial 332.8 506.0 356.1 total retail revenues 1,029.0 1,431.3 1,068.7 transport 62.8 54.2 50.8 other operating revenues 30.8 10.6 (5.8 ) total $ 1,122.6 $ 1,496.1 $ 1,113.7 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 1,299.7 993.9 985.7 commercial and industrial 123.4 93.3 92.4 transport 2.6 1.8 1.7 total customers 1,425.7 1,089.0 1,079.8 customers average (in thousands) 1,417.8 1,081.5 1,074.9 (1) includes the operations of wps beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. natural gas deliveries our gas therm deliveries include customer-owned transported natural gas. transported natural gas accounted for approximately 50.7% of the total volumes delivered during 2015 , 42.3% during 2014 , and 43.1% during 2013 . our peak daily send-out during 2015 was 18.2 million therms on january 7, 2015 . 2015 form 10-k 9 wec energy group, inc. table of contents large natural gas customers we provide natural gas utility service to a diversified base of industrial customers who are largely within our electric service territory. major industries served include governmental, educational, food products, paper, and metal. fuel used for wisconsin electric's electric generation represents our largest transportation customer. natural gas therms delivered to wisconsin electric for electric generation represented 15.3%, 9.3%, and 10.4% of the total volumes delivered during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we have been able to meet our contractual obligations with both our suppliers and our customers. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 18, commitments and contingencies. pipeline capacity and storage the interstate pipelines serving wisconsin originate in major natural gas producing areas of north america: the oklahoma and texas basins, western canada, and the rocky mountains. we have contracted for long-term firm capacity from a number of these sources. this strategy reflects management's belief that overall supply security is enhanced by geographic diversification of the supply portfolio. due to the daily and seasonal variations in natural gas usage in wisconsin, we have also contracted for substantial underground storage capacity, primarily in michigan. we target storage inventory levels at approximately 35% of forecasted winter demand; november through march is considered the winter season. storage capacity, along with our natural gas purchase contracts, enables us to manage significant changes in daily demand and to optimize our overall natural gas supply and capacity costs. we generally inject natural gas into storage during the spring and summer months when demand is lower and withdraw it in the winter months. as a result, we can contract for less long-line pipeline capacity during periods of peak usage than would otherwise be necessary and can purchase natural gas on a more uniform daily basis from suppliers year-round. each of these capabilities enables us to reduce our overall costs. we hold daily transportation and storage capacity entitlements with interstate pipeline companies as well as other service providers under varied-length long-term contracts. term natural gas supply we have contracts for firm supplies with terms of 3 7 months with suppliers for natural gas acquired in the chicago, illinois market hub and in the producing areas discussed above. the pricing of the term contracts is based upon first of the month indices. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of natural gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. our wisconsin natural gas utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 30.8 million therms for the 2015 through 2016 heating season. secondary market transactions pipeline long-line and storage capacity and natural gas supplies under contract can be resold in secondary markets. as local distribution companies, our wisconsin natural gas utilities must contract for capacity and supply sufficient to meet the firm peak-day demand of our customers. peak or near peak demand days generally occur only a few times each year. the secondary markets facilitate higher utilization of contracted capacity and supply during those times when the full contracted capacity and supply are not needed by the utility, helping to mitigate the fixed costs associated with maintaining peak levels of capacity and natural gas supply. through pre-arranged agreements and day-to-day electronic bulletin board postings, interested parties can purchase this excess capacity and supply. the proceeds from these transactions are passed through to rate payers, subject to our approved gcrms. during 2015 , we continued to participate in the secondary markets. for information on the gcrms, see note 1(d), revenues and customer receivables. spot market natural gas supply we expect to continue to make natural gas purchases in the spot market as price and other circumstances dictate. we have supply relationships with a number of sellers from whom we purchase natural gas in the spot market. 2015 form 10-k 10 wec energy group, inc. table of contents hedging natural gas supply prices wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas have pscw approval to hedge up to 60% of planned winter demand and up to 15% of planned summer demand using a mix of nymex-based natural gas options and futures contracts. wps has pscw approval to hedge up to 67% of planned winter demand using a combination of planned withdrawals from storage and nymex financial instruments. these approvals allow these companies to pass 100% of the hedging costs (premiums and brokerage fees) and proceeds (gains and losses) to rate payers through their respective gcrms. hedge targets (volumes) are provided annually to the pscw as part of each company's three-year natural gas supply plan and risk management filing. to the extent that opportunities develop and physical supply operating plans are supportive, wisconsin electric, wisconsin gas, and wps also have pscw approval to utilize nymex-based natural gas derivatives to capture favorable forward-market price differentials. these approvals provide for 100% of the related proceeds to accrue to these companies' respective gcrms. seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through october. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through october. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition competition in varying degrees exists between natural gas and other forms of energy available to consumers. a number of our large commercial and industrial customers are dual-fuel customers that are equipped to switch between natural gas and alternate fuels. we are allowed to offer lower-priced natural gas sales and transportation services to dual-fuel customers. under natural gas transportation agreements, customers purchase natural gas directly from natural gas marketers and arrange with interstate pipelines and us to have the natural gas transported to their facilities. we earn substantially the same margin (difference between revenue and cost of natural gas) whether we sell and transport natural gas to customers or only transport their natural gas. our ability to maintain our share of the industrial dual-fuel market depends on our success and the success of third-party natural gas marketers in obtaining long-term and short-term supplies of natural gas at competitive prices compared to other sources and in arranging or facilitating competitively priced transportation service for those customers that desire to buy their own natural gas supplies. federal and state regulators continue to implement policies to bring more competition to the natural gas industry. while the natural gas utility distribution function is expected to remain a highly regulated, monopoly function, the sale of the natural gas commodity and related services are expected to remain subject to competition from third parties for large commercial and industrial customers. it remains uncertain if and when the current economic disincentives for small firm customers to choose an alternative natural gas commodity supplier may be removed such that we begin to face competition for the sale of natural gas to those customers. steam utility operations wisconsin electric has a steam utility that generates, distributes, and sells steam supplied by vapp and mcpp to customers in metropolitan milwaukee, wisconsin. steam is used by customers for processing, space heating, domestic hot water, and humidification. wisconsin electric operates a district steam system in downtown milwaukee and the near south side of milwaukee, and steam is supplied to this system from vapp. wisconsin electric also operates the steam production and distribution facilities of the mcpp located on the milwaukee county grounds in wauwatosa, wisconsin. in 2015, we entered into an agreement to sell the mcpp, which is expected to close during the first half of 2016. 2015 form 10-k 11 wec energy group, inc. table of contents steam utility operating statistics annual sales of steam fluctuate from year to year based on system growth and variations in weather conditions. certain sections of this annual report on form 10-k combine steam operating revenues with electric operating revenues. the following table shows certain steam utility operating statistics for the past three years: year ended december 31 2015 2014 2013 operating revenues (in millions) $ 41.0 $ 44.1 $ 39.6 pounds of steam sales (in millions) 2,515 2,865 2,750 customers average 430 440 445 illinois segment our illinois segment includes the natural gas utility operations of pgl and nsg. pgl and nsg, both illinois corporations, began operations in 1855 and 1900, respectively. we acquired pgl and nsg as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. our customers are located in chicago and the northern suburbs of chicago. illinois utilities operating statistics the following table shows certain illinois utility operating statistics since the acquisition of integrys. six months ended december 31, 2015 operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 309.8 commercial and industrial 50.4 total retail revenues 360.2 transport 97.1 other operating revenues 46.1 total $ 503.4 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 838.2 commercial and industrial 46.2 transport 107.8 total customers 992.2 customers average (in thousands) 982.3 natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, peak-shaving facilities, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 18, commitments and contingencies . 2015 form 10-k 12 wec energy group, inc. table of contents we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having multiple pipelines that serve our natural gas service territory benefits our customers by improving reliability, providing access to a diverse supply of natural gas, and fostering competition among these service providers. these benefits can lead to favorable conditions for our illinois utilities when negotiating new agreements for transportation and storage services. our illinois utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. they hedge between 25% and 50% of natural gas purchases, with a target of 37.5%. we own a 38.3 bcf storage field (manlove field in central illinois) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. storage allows us to manage significant changes in daily natural gas demand and to purchase steady levels of natural gas on a year-round basis, which provides a hedge against supply cost volatility. we also own a natural gas pipeline system that connects manlove field to chicago and eight major interstate pipelines. these assets are directed primarily to serving rate-regulated retail customers and are included in our regulatory rate base. we also use a portion of these company-owned storage and pipeline assets as a natural gas hub, which consists of providing transportation and storage services in interstate commerce to our wholesale customers. customers deliver natural gas to us for storage through an injection into the storage reservoir, and we return the natural gas to the customers under an agreed schedule through a withdrawal from the storage reservoir. title to the natural gas does not transfer to us. we recognize service fees associated with the natural gas hub services provided to wholesale customers. these service fees reduce the cost of natural gas and services charged to retail customers in rates. we had adequate capacity to meet all firm natural gas demand obligations during 2015 and expect to have adequate capacity to meet all firm demand obligations during 2016. our illinois utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 25.4 million therms for the 2015 through 2016 heating season. accelerated natural gas main replacement program pgl is continuing work on the amrp, a 20-year project that began in 2011 under which pgl is replacing approximately 2,000 miles of chicago's aging natural gas pipeline infrastructure. pgl currently recovers these costs through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an icc approved qualifying infrastructure plant rider, which is in effect through 2023. for information on investigations related to the amrp, see note 22, regulatory environment . seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our illinois utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition although our illinois utilities' rates are regulated by the icc, we still face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. absent extraordinary circumstances, potential competitors are not allowed to construct competing natural gas distribution systems in our service territory due to a judicial doctrine known as the "first in the field." in addition, we believe it would be impractical to construct competing duplicate distribution facilities due to the high cost of installation. since 2002, all our illinois utilities' natural gas customers have had the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. as a result, we offer natural gas transportation service to enable customers to directly manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution system to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. 2015 form 10-k 13 wec energy group, inc. table of contents an interstate pipeline may seek to provide transportation service directly to end users, which would bypass our natural gas transportation service. however, we have a bypass rate approved by the icc, which allows us to negotiate rates with customers that are potential bypass candidates to help ensure that such customers use our transportation service. other states segment our other states segment includes the natural gas utility operations of merc and mgu. we acquired the natural gas distribution operations of merc and mgu, located in minnesota and michigan, respectively, on june 29, 2015, with the acquisition of integrys. merc serves customers in various cities and communities throughout minnesota, and mgu serves customers in the southern portion of lower michigan. other states utilities operating statistics the following table shows certain other states utility operating statistics since the acquisition of integrys. six months ended december 31, 2015 operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 67.6 commercial and industrial 38.8 total retail revenues 106.4 transport 11.5 other operating revenues 31.4 total $ 149.3 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 345.8 commercial and industrial 33.8 transport 23.0 total customers 402.6 customers average (in thousands) 401.5 natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, peak-shaving facilities, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 18, commitments and contingencies. we own a storage field (partello in michigan) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. storage allows us to manage significant changes in daily natural gas demand and to purchase steady levels of natural gas on a year-round basis, which provides a hedge against supply cost volatility. we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having multiple pipelines that serve our natural gas service territory benefits our customers by improving reliability, providing access to a diverse supply of natural gas, and fostering competition among these service providers. these benefits can lead to favorable conditions for our other states utilities when negotiating new agreements for transportation and storage services. our other states utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. 2015 form 10-k 14 wec energy group, inc. table of contents merc hedges up to 70% of planned winter demand using a combination of planned withdrawals from storage and nymex financial instruments. mgu hedges up to 20% of its planned annual purchases using nymex financial instruments. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. forecasted design peak-day throughput for our other states utilities segment is 8.2 million therms for the 2015 through 2016 heating season. seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our other states utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition although our other states utilities' rates are regulated by the mpuc and mspc, we still face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. many large commercial and industrial customers have the ability to switch between natural gas and alternate fuels. due to the volatility of energy commodity prices, we have seen customers with dual fuel capability switch to alternate fuels for short periods of time, then switch back to natural gas as market rates change. merc commercial and industrial customers have the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier and all mgu customers have the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. we offer natural gas transportation service and also offer interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution systems to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change. electric transmission segment american transmission company atc is a regional transmission company that owns, maintains, monitors, and operates electric transmission systems in wisconsin, michigan, illinois, and minnesota. atc is expected to provide comparable service to all customers, including wisconsin electric and wps, and to support effective competition in energy markets without favoring any market participant. atc is regulated by the ferc for all rate terms and conditions of service and is a transmission-owning member of miso. miso maintains operational control of atc's transmission system, and wisconsin electric and wps are non-transmission owning members and customers of miso. as of december 31, 2015 , our ownership interest in atc was approximately 60% . this increase over the december 31, 2014 , ownership interest of approximately 26% was due to the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. see note 4, investment in american transmission company, for more information . in april 2011, atc and duke energy announced the creation of a joint venture, datc, that will seek opportunities to acquire, build, own, and operate new electric transmission infrastructure in north america to address increasing demand for affordable, reliable transmission capacity. in april 2013, datc acquired a 72% interest in california's path 15 transmission line. datc continues to evaluate new projects and opportunities, along with participating in the competitive bidding process on projects it considers viable. these projects are located in the service territories of several different rtos around the country. on january 20, 2016, the ferc issued an order authorizing atc to enter into a proposed restructuring involving the creation of three new entities: atc holdco, atc development, and atc development manager, inc. atc's current member owners will have the option to retain their existing 2015 form 10-k 15 wec energy group, inc. table of contents ownership interests limited to atc in wisconsin and adjacent states or to exchange their current atc ownership interests for ownership interests in atc holdco, which would allow them to participate in atc's transmission business in wisconsin and adjacent states, as well as new transmission development projects throughout the u.s. atc is currently named in a complaint filed with the ferc requesting a reduction in the base roe used by miso transmission owners. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources other matters, for more information. c. non-utility operations we power segment we power, through wholly owned subsidiaries, has designed and built approximately 2,350 mw of generation in wisconsin as part of our ptf strategy. this generation is made up of capacity from the oak creek expansion units, oc 1 and oc 2, which were placed in service in february 2010 and january 2011, respectively, and the pwgs units, pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, which were placed in service in july 2005 and may 2008, respectively. two unaffiliated entities collectively own approximately 17%, or approximately 211 mw, of oc 1 and oc 2. all four of the ptf units are being leased to wisconsin electric under long-term leases (the oak creek units have 30-year leases and the pwgs units have 25-year leases). the ptf units are positioned to provide a significant portion of our future generation needs. our ptf strategy was designed to address wisconsin electric's electric supply needs by increasing the electric generating capacity in wisconsin while allowing us to maintain a diversified fuel mix by including both new coal-fired plants and natural gas-fired plants. because of the significant investment necessary to construct these generating units, we constructed the plants under wisconsin's leased generation law, which allows a non-utility affiliate to construct an electric generating facility and lease it to the public utility. the law allows a public utility that has entered into a lease approved by the pscw to recover fully in its retail electric rates that portion of any payments under the lease that the pscw has allocated to the public utility's wisconsin retail electric service, and all other costs that are prudently incurred in the public utility's operation and maintenance of the electric generating facility allocated to the utility's wisconsin retail electric service. in addition, the pscw may not modify or terminate a lease it has approved under the leased generation law except as specifically provided in the lease or the pscw's order approving the lease. this law effectively created regulatory certainty in light of the significant investment being made to construct the units. all four ptf units were constructed under leases approved by the pscw. we are recovering our costs of the ptf units, including subsequent capital additions, through lease payments that are billed from we power to wisconsin electric and then recovered in wisconsin electric's rates as authorized by the pscw, the mpsc, and the ferc. under the lease terms, our return is calculated using a 12.7% roe and the equity ratio is assumed to be 55% for the oak creek units and 53% for the pwgs units. for additional background information on our ptf strategy, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources power the future in item 7. of our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2007. corporate and other segment the corporate and other segment includes the operations of the wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, and the pellc holding company, as well as the operations of wispark, bostco, wisvest, wecc, wbs, pdl, and itf. bostco and wispark develop and invest in real estate, and combined they had $72.7 million in real estate holdings at december 31, 2015 . wispark has developed several business parks and other commercial real estate projects, primarily in southeastern wisconsin. wisvest was originally formed to develop, own, and operate electric generating facilities and to invest in other energy-related entities. however, wisvest discontinued its development activity several years ago. at december 31, 2015 , wisvest's only operating asset and investment was wisvest thermal energy services, which provides chilled water services to the milwaukee regional medical center. during 2015, we entered into an agreement to sell the mcpp, including wisvest thermal energy services. this sale is expected to close during the first half of 2016. 2015 form 10-k 16 wec energy group, inc. table of contents wecc was originally formed to invest in non-utility projects, such as low income housing developments. however, due to a focus on our regulated utility business, wecc sold many of its non-utility investments and no longer has significant operations. wbs is a wholly owned centralized service company that provides administrative and general support services to our regulated utilities. wbs also provides certain administrative and support services to our nonregulated entities. pdl owns distributed renewable projects, primarily solar, and a natural gas-fired cogeneration facility in wisconsin known as the combined locks energy center. pdl's natural gas-fired facility is subject to market price volatility and is dispatched to produce energy only when it is economical to do so. pdl's renewable energy facilities rely on renewable resources, such as solar irradiance or landfill gas. there is no market price risk associated with the fuel supply of these facilities. however, production at these facilities can be intermittent due to the availability of the renewable energy resource. itf designs, builds, maintains, owns, and operates cng fueling stations in multiple states. in addition, itf manufactures its own compressor package, which includes a proprietary method of compressing natural gas. since itf's operations are inconsistent with our risk profile, we entered into an agreement to sell itf in february 2016. see note 3, dispositions, for more information . d. regulation we are a holding company and are subject to the requirements of the public utility holding company act of 2005 (puhca 2005). we also have various subsidiaries that meet the definition of a holding company under puhca 2005 and are also subject to its requirements. pursuant to the non-utility asset cap provisions of wisconsin's public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. however, among other items, the law exempts energy-related assets, including the generating plants constructed by we power as part of our ptf strategy, from being counted against the asset cap provided that they are employed in qualifying businesses. we report to the pscw annually our compliance with this law and provide supporting documentation to show that our non-utility assets are below the non-utility asset cap. regulated utility operations in addition to the specific regulations noted above and below, our utilities are also subject to regulations, where applicable, of the epa, the wdnr, the mdeq, the michigan department of natural resources, the illinois environmental protection agency, the u.s. army corps of engineers, the minnesota department of natural resources, and the minnesota pollution control agency. 2015 form 10-k 17 wec energy group, inc. table of contents rates our utilities' rates are regulated by the various commissions shown in the table below. these commissions have general supervisory and regulatory powers over public utilities in their respective jurisdictions. regulated rates regulatory commission wisconsin electric retail electric, natural gas, and steam pscw retail electric mpsc wholesale power ferc wps retail electric and natural gas pscw and mpsc wholesale power ferc wisconsin gas retail natural gas pscw pgl retail natural gas icc nsg retail natural gas icc merc retail natural gas mpuc mgu retail natural gas mpsc embedded within wisconsin electric's and wps's electric rates is an amount to recover fuel and purchased power costs. the wisconsin retail fuel rules require the utility to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, any under-collection or over-collection of fuel and purchased power costs that are outside of the utility's symmetrical fuel cost tolerance, which the pscw typically sets at plus or minus 2% of the utility's approved fuel and purchased power cost plan. the deferred fuel and purchased power costs are subject to an excess revenues test. if the utility's roe in a given year exceeds the roe authorized by the pscw, the recovery of under-collected fuel and purchased power costs would be reduced by the amount by which the utility's return exceeds the authorized amount. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers and our wisconsin wholesale electric customers. our natural gas operations operate under gcrms as approved by their respective state regulator. generally, the gcrms allow for a dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs. for a summary of the significant mechanisms our utility subsidiaries had in place in 2015 that allowed them to recover or refund changes in prudently incurred costs from rate case-approved amounts, see note 1(d), revenues and customer receivables . in may 2015, the pscw approved the acquisition of integrys on the condition that wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas will be subject to an earnings sharing mechanism for three years beginning january 1, 2016 . see note 2, acquisition, for more information on this earnings sharing mechanism. for information on how rates are set for our regulated entities, see note 22, regulatory environment . orders from our respective regulators can be viewed at the following websites: regulatory commission website pscw https://psc.wi.gov/ icc https://www.icc.illinois.gov/ mpsc http://www.michigan.gov/mpsc/ mpuc http://mn.gov/puc/ ferc http://www.ferc.gov/ 2015 form 10-k 18 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the material and information contained on these websites are not intended to be a part of, nor are they incorporated by reference into, this annual report on form 10-k. the following table compares our utility operating revenues by regulatory jurisdiction for each of the three years ended december 31: 2015 2014 2013 (in millions) amount percent amount percent amount percent electric (1) wisconsin $ 3,374.9 83.0 % $ 2,934.0 85.2 % $ 2,914.4 87.0 % michigan 173.1 4.3 % 58.8 1.7 % 147.0 4.4 % ferc wholesale 429.1 10.5 % 396.0 11.5 % 286.9 8.6 % ferc ssr (2) 91.4 2.2 % 56.4 1.6 % % total 4,068.5 100.0 % 3,445.2 100.0 % 3,348.3 100.0 % natural gas (1) wisconsin 1,121.3 63.2 % 1,496.1 100.0 % 1,113.7 100.0 % illinois 503.4 28.4 % % % minnesota 98.3 5.5 % % % michigan 52.3 2.9 % % % total 1,775.3 100.0 % 1,496.1 100.0 % 1,113.7 100.0 % total utility operating revenues $ 5,843.8 $ 4,941.3 $ 4,462.0 (1) includes the operations of wps, pgl, nsg, merc, and mgu beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. (2) see note 22, regulatory environment, for more information regarding ssr revenues. electric transmission, capacity, and energy markets in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso developed bid-based energy markets, which were implemented on april 1, 2005. in january 2009, miso commenced the miso energy markets, which include the bid-based energy markets and an ancillary services market. we previously self-provided both regulation reserves and contingency reserves. in the miso ancillary services market, we buy/sell regulation and contingency reserves from/to the market. the miso ancillary services market has been able to reduce overall ancillary services costs in the miso footprint. the miso ancillary services market has enabled miso to assume significant balancing area responsibilities such as frequency control and disturbance control. in miso, base transmission costs are currently being paid by load-serving entities located in the service territories of each miso transmission owner. the ferc has previously confirmed the use of the current transmission cost allocation methodology. certain additional costs for new transmission projects are allocated throughout the miso footprint. as part of miso, a market-based platform was developed for valuing transmission congestion premised upon the lmp system that has been implemented in certain northeastern and mid-atlantic states. the lmp system includes the ability to mitigate or eliminate congestion costs through arrs and ftrs. arrs are allocated to market participants by miso, and ftrs are purchased through auctions. a new allocation and auction were completed for the period of june 1, 2015, through may 31, 2016. the resulting arr valuation and the secured ftrs are expected to mitigate our transmission congestion risk for that period. beginning june 1, 2013, miso instituted an annual zonal resource adequacy requirement to ensure there is sufficient generation capacity to serve the miso market. to meet this requirement, capacity resources could be acquired through miso's annual capacity auction, bilateral contracts for capacity, or provided from generating or demand response resources. our capacity requirements during 2015 were primarily fulfilled using our own capacity resources. 2015 form 10-k 19 wec energy group, inc. table of contents other electric regulations wisconsin electric and wps are subject to the federal power act and the corresponding regulations developed by certain federal agencies. the energy policy act amended the federal power act in 2005 to, among other things, make electric utility industry consolidation more feasible, authorize the ferc to review proposed mergers and the acquisition of generation facilities, change the ferc regulatory scheme applicable to qualifying cogeneration facilities, and modify certain other aspects of energy regulations and federal tax policies applicable to us. additionally, the energy policy act created an electric reliability organization to be overseen by the ferc, which established mandatory electric reliability standards and which has the authority to levy monetary sanctions for failure to comply with these standards. wisconsin electric and wps are subject to act 141 in wisconsin and public act 295 in michigan, which contain certain minimum requirements for renewable energy generation. see note 18, commitments and contingencies, for more information . all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. other natural gas regulations almost all of the natural gas we distribute is transported to our distribution systems by interstate pipelines. the pipelines' transportation and storage services, including pgl's natural gas hub, are regulated by the ferc under the natural gas act and the natural gas policy act of 1978. in addition, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration and the state commissions are responsible for monitoring and enforcing requirements governing our natural gas utilities' safety compliance programs for our pipelines under united states department of transportation regulations. these regulations include 49 code of federal regulations (cfr) part 192 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards) and 49 cfr part 195 (transportation of hazardous liquids by pipeline). we are required to provide natural gas service and grant credit (with applicable deposit requirements) to customers within our service territories. we are generally not allowed to discontinue natural gas service during winter moratorium months to residential heating customers who do not pay their bills. federal and certain state governments have programs that provide for a limited amount of funding for assistance to low-income customers of the utilities. non-utility operations we power, through wholly owned subsidiaries, constructed the new generating capacity in our ptf strategy. these facilities are being leased on a long-term basis to wisconsin electric. environmental permits necessary for operating the facilities are the responsibility of the operating entity, wisconsin electric. we power received determinations from the ferc that upon the transfer of the facilities by lease to wisconsin electric, we power's subsidiaries would not be deemed public utilities under the federal power act and thus would not be subject to the ferc's jurisdiction. e. environmental compliance our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation of ghg emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, or wastewater discharges, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs. anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital requirements in item 7. for a discussion of matters related to certain solid waste and coal combustion product landfills, manufactured gas plant sites, and air and water quality, see note 18, commitments and contingencies , and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources environmental matters in item 7. 2015 form 10-k 20 wec energy group, inc. table of contents f. employees as of december 31, 2015 , we had the following number of employees: total employees number of full-time employees wisconsin electric 3,653 3,551 wps 1,329 1,267 wisconsin gas 426 415 pgl 1,339 1,337 nsg 167 166 merc 216 213 mgu 159 156 wbs 1,043 * 998 itf 108 105 other 3 3 total employees 8,443 8,211 * effective january 1, 2016, approximately 500 employees were transferred from wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas into wbs. 2015 form 10-k 21 wec energy group, inc. table of contents as of december 31, 2015 , we had employees represented under labor agreements with the following bargaining units: number of employees expiration date of current labor agreement wisconsin electric local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 1,679 august 15, 2017 local 420 of international union of operating engineers, afl-cio 489 september 30, 2017 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america, afl-cio 123 april 30, 2017 local 510 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 105 october 31, 2016 total wisconsin electric 2,396 wps local 420 of international union of operating engineers, afl-cio 917 october 15, 2016 wisconsin gas local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 91 august 15, 2017 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america, afl-cio 191 april 30, 2017 local 2006 unit 3 of united steel workers of america, afl-cio 3 february 29, 2016 total wisconsin gas 285 pgl local 18007 of utility workers union of america, afl-cio 955 april 30, 2018 nsg local 2285 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl cio 121 june 30, 2019 merc local 31 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl cio 39 may 31, 2016 mgu local 12295 of united steelworkers of america, afl-cio clc 77 january 15, 2017 local 417 of utility workers union of america, afl-cio * 31 february 15, 2016 total mgu 108 total represented employees 4,821 * mgu entered into a labor agreement with local 417 of utility workers union of america afl-cio, which became effective february 16, 2016. the agreement expires on february 15, 2019. 2015 form 10-k 22 wec energy group, inc. table of contents item 1a. risk factors we are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the sec from time to time, when making an investment decision. risks related to legislation and regulation our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local, and federal governmental regulation, including regulation by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. this regulation significantly influences our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers. many aspects of our operations are regulated, including, but not limited to: the rates we charge our retail electric, natural gas, and steam customers; wholesale power service practices; electric reliability requirements and accounting; participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market; standards of service; issuance of securities; short-term debt obligations; construction and operation of facilities; transactions with affiliates; and billing practices. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to customer refunds, penalties, and other payments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the rates, including adjustments determined under riders, we are allowed to charge our customers for retail and wholesale services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. rate regulation is based on providing an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent on regulatory action, and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. in addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable roe. we defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured, and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. if recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses for our existing operations, have complied with all of their associated terms, and that our businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws. these permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. in addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal, state, and local agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. we cannot predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies. changes in regulations, interpretations of regulations, or the imposition of new regulations could influence our operating environment, may result in substantial compliance costs, or may require us to change our business operations. if we are unable to obtain, renew, or comply with these governmental permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional requirements or any other associated costs in customer rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may face significant costs to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. our operations are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions (including co 2, methane, mercury, so 2 , and nox), water quality, wastewater discharges, and management of hazardous, toxic, and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant costs to comply with these environmental requirements, including costs associated with the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at our facilities. in addition, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa has adopted and has implemented (or is in the process of implementing) regulations governing the emission of nox, so 2 , fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the caa through the naaqs, the mats rule, the clean power plan, 2015 form 10-k 23 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the csapr, and other air quality regulations. in addition, the epa has finalized regulations under the clean water act that govern cooling water intake structures at our power plants and revised the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants. the epa has also adopted a final rule that would expand traditional federal jurisdiction over navigable waters and related wetlands for permitting and other regulatory matters; however, this rule has been stayed. we continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. several environmental regulations were either finalized or implemented during 2015, and there is still uncertainty as to what capital expenditures or additional costs may ultimately be required to comply with these regulations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level that could result in significant additional expenditures for our generation units or distribution systems, including, without limitation, costs to further limit ghg emissions from our operations through emission control technology; operating restrictions on our facilities; and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and compliance with rules regulating our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. any such regulation may also create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could affect the availability and/or cost of fossil fuels. as a result, certain of our coal-fired electric generating facilities may become uneconomical to maintain and operate, which could result in some of these units being retired early or converted to an alternative type of fuel. if generation facility owners in the midwest, including us, are forced to retire a significant number of older coal-fired generation facilities, a potential reduction in the region's capacity reserve margin below acceptable risk levels may result. this could impair the reliability of the grid in the midwest, particularly during peak demand periods. a reduction in available future capacity could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers' needs. our electric and natural gas utilities are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental impacts at certain of our current and former facilities, and at third-party owned sites. we accrue liabilities and defer costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with our former manufactured gas plant sites. these costs include all costs incurred to date that we expect to recover, management's best estimates of future costs for investigation and remediation, and related legal expenses, and are net of amounts recovered by or that may be recovered from insurance or other third parties. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future, as well as the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate or could vary from the amounts currently accrued. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements, has increased generally throughout the u.s. in particular, personal injury, property damage, and other claims for damages alleged to have been caused by environmental impacts and alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. in addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of facilities that we previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during, or after the time we owned or operated these facilities. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. federal, state, regional, and international authorities have undertaken efforts to limit ghg emissions. in 2015, the epa issued the clean power plan, which is a final rule that regulates ghg emissions from existing generating units, as well as a proposed federal plan as an alternative to state compliance plans. the epa also issued final performance standards for modified and reconstructed generating units, as well as for new fossil-fueled power plants. under the clean power plan, states are required to submit compliance plans as early as september 2016 to achieve state-specific ghg emission reductions by 2030. if wisconsin or michigan determines not to file a state compliance plan, we may be required to comply with the federal plan, which could result in more significant 2015 form 10-k 24 wec energy group, inc. table of contents compliance costs than a state compliance plan. we are continuing to analyze the final rule and to work with other stakeholders to determine how to implement the clean power plan and the potential impacts to our operations. in october 2015, numerous states (including wisconsin and michigan), trade associations, and private parties filed lawsuits challenging the final rule, including a request to stay the implementation of the final rule pending the outcome of these legal challenges. the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit (d.c. circuit court of appeals) denied the stay request, but on february 9, 2016, the united states supreme court (supreme court) stayed the effectiveness of the rule until disposition of the litigation in the d.c. circuit court of appeals and to the extent that review is sought, at the supreme court. therefore, it is unlikely that states will move forward on the development of the state plans until the litigation is complete. any state or federal compliance plans that are developed could be subject to change based upon the outcome of this litigation. in addition, on february 15, 2016, the governor of wisconsin issued executive order 186, which prohibits state agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or other state entities from developing or promoting the development of a state plan. the rule could result in significant additional compliance costs, including capital expenditures, and impact how we operate our existing fossil-fueled power plants and biomass facility, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating costs. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with the clean power plan or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. the clean power plan and any other related regulations that may be adopted in the future, either at the federal or state level, may cause our environmental compliance spending over the next several years to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. these regulations could have a material adverse impact on our electric generation and natural gas distribution operations, could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, and could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions. these regulations could also adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. in addition, our natural gas delivery systems may generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair of natural gas delivery systems. fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane. co 2 is also a byproduct of natural gas consumption. as a result, future legislation to regulate ghg emissions could increase the price of natural gas, restrict the use of natural gas, and adversely affect our ability to operate our natural gas facilities. a significant increase in the price of natural gas may increase rates for our natural gas customers, which could reduce natural gas demand. our electric utilities could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. our electric utilities are subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject our electric utilities to higher operating costs. if our electric utilities were ever found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, the act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors, and the public. this provision and other requirements of the act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wec energy group. as a result, stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. risks related to the operation of our business our operations are subject to risks arising from the reliability of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, natural gas infrastructure facilities, and other facilities, as well as the reliability of third-party transmission providers. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generation and natural gas and electric distribution facilities. the operation of these facilities involves many risks, including operator error and the breakdown or failure of equipment or 2015 form 10-k 25 wec energy group, inc. table of contents processes. potential breakdown or failure may occur due to severe weather; catastrophic events (i.e., fires, earthquakes, explosions, tornadoes, floods, droughts, pandemic health events, etc.); significant changes in water levels in waterways; fuel supply or transportation disruptions; accidents; employee labor disputes; construction delays or cost overruns; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material, and/or labor; performance below expected levels; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; or cyber security threats. any of these events could lead to substantial financial losses. because our electric generation facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission facilities, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by events impacting their systems. unplanned outages at our power plants may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. insurance, warranties, performance guarantees, or recovery through the regulatory process may not cover any or all of these lost revenues or increased expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to various conditions that can result in fluctuations in energy sales to customers, including customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas, varying weather conditions, and energy conservation efforts. our results of operations and cash flows are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas, which can vary greatly based upon: fluctuations in customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas. customer growth and energy use can be negatively impacted by population declines as well as economic factors in our service territories, including job losses, decreases in income, and business closings. our electric and natural gas utilities are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products. these risks could directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas as well as the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. we could also be exposed to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills. weather conditions . demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, milder temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season may result in lower revenues and net income. our customers' continued focus on energy conservation and ability to meet their own energy needs . customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices, and individual conservation efforts through the use of more energy efficient technologies. conservation of energy can be influenced by certain federal and state programs that are intended to influence how consumers use energy. in addition, several states, including wisconsin and michigan, have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. as part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer growth and general economic conditions, weather, and customer energy conservation efforts, but risks still remain. any of these matters, as well as any regulatory delay in adjusting rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we are actively involved with several significant capital projects, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. in addition, wbs has various capital projects that are primarily related to the development of software applications used to support our utilities. achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties, some of which we will have limited or no control over, that could adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, the ability to adhere to established budgets and time frames; the availability of labor or materials at estimated costs; the ability of contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable laws or regulations; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy. in addition, certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. if construction of commission-approved 2015 form 10-k 26 wec energy group, inc. table of contents projects should materially and adversely deviate from the schedules, estimates, and projections on which the approval was based, the applicable commission may deem the additional capital costs as imprudent and disallow recovery of them through rates. to the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. in 2015, the icc and the attorney general of illinois initiated investigations into our amrp capital project. since the investigations are ongoing, it is too early to determine, what effect, if any, the investigations will have on the amrp. advances in technology could make our electric generating facilities less competitive. research and development activities are ongoing for new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption. these technologies include renewable energy, customer-oriented generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. we generate power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive. it is possible that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station power production. if these technologies become cost competitive and achieve economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses. our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to, cyber security intrusions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information. we face the risk of terrorist and cyber intrusions, both threatened and actual, against our generation facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, our information and technology systems, and network infrastructure, including that of third parties on which we rely, any of which could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, purchase, or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we operate in an industry that requires the use of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which control an interconnected system of generation, distribution, and transmission systems shared with third parties. a successful physical or cyber security intrusion may occur despite our security measures or those that we require our vendors to take, which include compliance with reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards. successful cyber intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage systems, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of service to customers. these intrusions may cause unplanned outages at our power plants, which may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. the risk of such intrusions may also increase our capital and operating costs as a result of having to implement increased security measures for protection of our information technology and infrastructure. we face on-going threats to our assets and technology systems. despite the implementation of strong security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error or physical or cyber intrusions. if our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, stockholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. security breaches may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons, and/or could cause us to become subject to significant litigation, costs, liability, fines, or penalties, any of which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations as well as our reputation with customers, stockholders and regulators, among others. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such intrusions or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. we may also need to obtain additional insurance coverage related to the threat of such intrusions. 2015 form 10-k 27 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the costs of repairing damage to our facilities, protecting personally identifiable information, and notifying impacted persons, as well as related legal claims, may not be recoverable in rates, may exceed the insurance limits on our insurance policies, or, in some cases, may not be covered by insurance. transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. inherent in natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to us. the location of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. these activities may subject us to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any of our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for the payment of dividends on our common stock. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us depends on their earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, and general financial condition, as well as regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. in addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay amounts to us depends on any statutory, regulatory, and/or contractual restrictions and limitations applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain specified levels of debt or equity ratios, working capital, or other assets. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. we may fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations, including obligations under power purchase agreements, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, electricity, natural gas, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be required to replace the underlying commitment at current market prices or we may be unable to meet all of our customers' electric and natural gas requirements unless or until alternative supply arrangements are put in place. in such event, we may incur losses, and our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected. we have entered into several power purchase agreements with non-affiliated companies, and continue to look for additional opportunities to enter into these agreements. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under the power purchase agreements. although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more purchasers could fail to perform their obligations under the power purchase agreements. if this were to occur, we would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers. to the extent there is any regulatory delay in adjusting rates, a customer default under a power purchase agreement could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 2015 form 10-k 28 wec energy group, inc. table of contents our revenues could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets. the ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers, and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter. technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. we currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. we may not be able to use tax credits, net operating losses, and/or charitable contribution carryforwards. we have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax liability in the past through tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available under the applicable tax codes. we have not fully used the allowed tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions in our previous tax filings. we may not be able to fully use the tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available as carryforwards if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit their use. in addition, any future disallowance of some or all of those tax credits, net operating losses, or charitable contribution carryforwards as a result of legislation or an adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions could materially affect our tax obligations and financial results. risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to credit and capital markets to support our capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity, which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. our or our subsidiaries' access to the credit and capital markets could be limited, or our or our subsidiaries' cost of capital significantly increased, due to any of the following risks and uncertainties: a rating downgrade; an economic downturn or uncertainty; prevailing market conditions; concerns over foreign economic conditions; changes in tax policy; war or the threat of war; and the overall health and view of the utility and financial institution industries. if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, and could limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level. 2015 form 10-k 29 wec energy group, inc. table of contents a downgrade in our or any of our subsidiaries' credit ratings could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact our and our subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, but not limited to, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. we or any of our subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of us, our utilities, or the utility industry has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. any downgrade by the rating agencies could: increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities; require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the pool of creditors; decrease funding sources by limiting our or our subsidiaries' access to the commercial paper market; limit the availability of adequate credit support for our subsidiaries' operations; and trigger collateral requirements in various contracts. fluctuating commodity prices could negatively impact our electric and natural gas utility operations. the margins and liquidity requirements of our businesses are impacted by changes in the forward and current market prices of natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy credits, and ancillary services. our electric utilities burn natural gas in several of their electric generation plants and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. the cost of natural gas may increase because of disruptions in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution, international market conditions, the demand for natural gas, and the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility. our wisconsin electric utilities bear the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical 2% fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in their respective rate structures. our natural gas utilities receive dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs. changes in commodity prices could result in: higher working capital requirements, particularly related to natural gas inventory, accounts receivable, and cash collateral postings; reduced profitability to the extent that reduced margins, increased bad debt, and interest expense are not recovered through rates; higher rates charged to our customers, which could impact our competitive position; reduced demand for energy, which could impact margins and operating expenses; and shutting down of generation facilities if the cost of generation exceeds the market price for electricity. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to protect against an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory levels will be adequate. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, we cannot assure that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us, or we may experience operational problems or constraints that prevent us from taking delivery. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. furthermore, demand for coal can impact its availability and cost. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal-fired units and replace this lost generation through additional power purchases in the miso energy markets. there is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed, either of which could adversely affect our cash flows. our electric generation frequently exceeds our customer load. when this occurs, we generally sell the excess generation into the 2015 form 10-k 30 wec energy group, inc. table of contents miso energy markets. if we are unable to run our lower cost units, we may lose the ability to engage in these opportunity sales, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards to manage commodity price exposure. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of our utilities must be approved by the various state commissions, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including michigan and illinois, have adopted retail choice. under michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. the law limits customer choice to 10% of our michigan retail load. the two iron ore mines located in the upper peninsula of michigan are excluded from this cap. when a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. it is uncertain whether retail choice might be implemented in wisconsin or minnesota. illinois utilities' retail customers may choose an alternative natural gas supplier. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution system to transport the natural gas to their facilities. because we earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers, these arrangements have little or no impact on our net income. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes an lmp that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets, we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that was simultaneously co-optimized with its existing energy markets. these market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the miso energy markets, and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. we may experience poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings due to changes in assumptions and market conditions. we have significant obligations related to pension and opeb plans. if we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors, including actual plan experience, changes made to the plans, and assumptions concerning the future. types of assumptions include earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and our required or voluntary contributions to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. in addition, medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. our funding requirements could be impacted by a decline in the market value of plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in demographics (including the number of retirements), or changes in life expectancy assumptions. 2015 form 10-k 31 wec energy group, inc. table of contents we may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. risks related to the integrys acquisition the acquisition of integrys may not achieve its anticipated results, and we may be unable to integrate operations as expected. the merger agreement was entered into with the expectation that the acquisition would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of the two companies can be integrated in an efficient, effective, and timely manner. it is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees; the disruption of ongoing businesses, processes, and systems; or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies, and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction as and when expected. we may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. the acquisition may not be accretive to earnings and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. we anticipate that the acquisition will be accretive to earnings per share in 2016, which will be the first full year following completion of the transaction. this expectation is based on preliminary estimates that are subject to change. we also could encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the acquisition, or may be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. any of these factors could cause a decrease in our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction and contribute to a decrease in the price of our common stock. we may incur unexpected transaction fees and transaction-related costs in connection with the acquisition. we incurred a number of expenses associated with completing the acquisition, and expect to incur additional expenses related to combining the operations of the two companies. we may incur additional unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses. although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses of the two companies, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time, we may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all. we recorded goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect financial results. the acquisition of integrys was accounted for as a purchase in accordance with gaap. under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities acquired and assumed were recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition and added to those of legacy wisconsin energy corporation. the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values was recorded as goodwill. as of december 31, 2015 , goodwill totaled $3,023.5 million , of which $2,581.6 million is attributable to the acquisition of integrys. we perform an analysis of our goodwill balances to test for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would indicate a potential for impairment. if goodwill is deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur material non-cash charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources market risks and other significant risks in item 7. of this report, as well as note 1(t), derivative instruments , note 1(s), fair value measurements , and note 16, guarantees , for information concerning potential market risks to which we are exposed. 2015 form 10-k 64 wec energy group, inc. table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors and those identified below: factors affecting utility operations such as catastrophic weather-related damage, environmental incidents, unplanned facility outages and repairs and maintenance, and electric transmission or natural gas pipeline system constraints; factors affecting the demand for electricity and natural gas, including political developments, unusual weather, changes in economic conditions, customer growth and declines, commodity prices, energy conservation efforts, and continued adoption of distributed generation by customers; the timing, resolution, and impact of rate cases and negotiations, including recovery of deferred and current costs and the ability to earn a reasonable return on investment, and other regulatory decisions impacting our regulated operations; the ability to obtain and retain customers, including wholesale customers, due to increased competition in our electric and natural gas markets from retail choice and alternative electric suppliers, and continued industry consolidation; the timely completion of capital projects within budgets, as well as the recovery of the related costs through rates; the impact of federal, state, and local legislative and regulatory changes, including changes in rate-setting policies or procedures, tax law changes, deregulation and restructuring of the electric and/or natural gas utility industries, transmission or distribution system operation, the approval process for new construction, reliability standards, pipeline integrity and safety standards, allocation of energy assistance, and energy efficiency mandates; federal and state legislative and regulatory changes relating to the environment, including climate change and other environmental regulations impacting generation facilities and renewable energy standards, the enforcement of these laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation of permit conditions by regulatory agencies, and the recovery of associated remediation and compliance costs; the risks associated with changing commodity prices, particularly natural gas and electricity, and the availability of sources of fossil fuel, natural gas, purchased power, materials needed to operate environmental controls at our electric generating facilities, or water supply due to high demand, shortages, transportation problems, nonperformance by electric energy or natural gas suppliers under existing power purchase or natural gas supply contracts, or other developments; changes in credit ratings, interest rates, and our ability to access the capital markets, caused by volatility in the global credit markets, our capitalization structure, and market perceptions of the utility industry, us, or any of our subsidiaries; costs and effects of litigation, administrative proceedings, investigations, settlements, claims, and inquiries; restrictions imposed by various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances; 2016 form 10-k 1 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the risk of financial loss, including increases in bad debt expense, associated with the inability of our customers, counterparties, and affiliates to meet their obligations; changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; the direct or indirect effect on our business resulting from terrorist incidents, the threat of terrorist incidents, and cyber security intrusion, including the failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, the associated costs to protect our assets and personal information, and the costs to notify affected persons to mitigate their information security concerns; the financial performance of atc and its corresponding contribution to our earnings, as well as the ability of atc and datc to obtain the required approvals for their transmission projects; the investment performance of our employee benefit plan assets, as well as unanticipated changes in related actuarial assumptions, which could impact future funding requirements; factors affecting the employee workforce, including loss of key personnel, internal restructuring, work stoppages, and collective bargaining agreements and negotiations with union employees; advances in technology that result in competitive disadvantages and create the potential for impairment of existing assets; the timing, costs, and anticipated benefits associated with the remaining integration efforts relating to the integrys acquisition; the risk associated with the values of goodwill and other intangible assets and their possible impairment; potential business strategies to acquire and dispose of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed timely or within budgets, and legislative or regulatory restrictions or caps on non-utility acquisitions, investments or projects, including the state of wisconsin's public utility holding company law; the timing and outcome of any audits, disputes, and other proceedings related to taxes; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and other considerations disclosed elsewhere herein and in other reports we file with the sec or in other publicly disseminated written documents. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 2016 form 10-k 2 wec energy group, inc. table of contents part i item 1. business a. introduction in this report, when we refer to "us," "we," "our," or "ours," we are referring to wec energy group, inc. the term "utility" refers to the regulated activities of the electric and natural gas utility companies, while the term "non-utility" refers to the activities of the electric and natural gas utility companies that are not regulated, as well as we power. the term "nonregulated" refers to activities at wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, the pellc holding company, wispark, bostco, wisvest, wecc, wbs, pdl, and itf (prior to the sale of this business in the first quarter of 2016). references to "notes" are to the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. for more information about our business operations, including financial and geographic information about each reportable business segment, see note 24, segment information , and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations. wec energy group, inc. we were incorporated in the state of wisconsin in 1981 and became a diversified holding company in 1986. we maintain our principal executive offices in milwaukee, wisconsin. our wholly owned subsidiaries provide regulated natural gas and electricity, as well as nonregulated renewable energy. another subsidiary, itf, provided cng products and services prior to its sale in the first quarter of 2016. see note 3, dispositions, for more information on this sale. we have an approximately 60% equity interest in atc (an electric transmission company operating in illinois, michigan, minnesota, and wisconsin). at december 31, 2016 , we had six reportable segments which are discussed below. for additional information about our reportable segments, see note 24, segment information . acquisition on june 29, 2015, wisconsin energy corporation acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of integrys and changed its name to wec energy group, inc. for additional information on this acquisition, see note 2, acquisitions . available information our annual and periodic filings with the sec are available, free of charge, on our website, www.wecenergygroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may obtain materials we filed with or furnished to the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. to obtain information on the operation of the public reference room, you may call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. you may also view information filed or furnished electronically with the sec at the sec's website at www.sec.gov . b. utility energy operations wisconsin segment electric utility operations for the periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k, our electric utility operations included operations of we for all periods and operations for wps beginning july 1, 2015, due to the acquisition of integrys and its subsidiaries. we, which is the largest electric utility in the state of wisconsin, generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in southeastern wisconsin (including the metropolitan milwaukee area), east central wisconsin, and northern wisconsin, and serves an iron ore mine owned by tilden mining company (tilden) in the upper peninsula of michigan. for more information on the mine, see the discussion below under the heading "large electric retail customers." wps generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in northeastern wisconsin. 2016 form 10-k 3 wec energy group, inc. table of contents through december 31, 2016, we and wps serviced electric customers in the upper peninsula of michigan. effective january 1, 2017, we and wps transferred their electric customers and electric distribution assets located in the upper peninsula of michigan to umerc, a new stand-alone utility. more information about umerc is included at the end of the wisconsin segment section, under the heading "upper michigan energy resources corporation." the operations of umerc will continue to be reported as a part of the wisconsin segment. operating revenues the following table shows electric utility operating revenues, including steam operations, for the past three years: year ended december 31 (in millions) 2016 2015 (1) 2014 operating revenues residential $ 1,620.7 $ 1,398.5 $ 1,199.3 small commercial and industrial (2) 1,418.1 1,235.7 1,054.3 large commercial and industrial (2) 949.5 858.8 640.7 other 29.8 26.9 23.0 total retail revenues (2) 4,018.1 3,519.9 2,917.3 wholesale 231.2 181.4 131.9 resale 247.1 248.7 264.1 steam 27.2 41.0 44.1 other operating revenues (3) 104.5 77.5 87.8 total operating revenues (2) $ 4,628.1 $ 4,068.5 $ 3,445.2 (1) includes the operations of wps beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. (2) includes distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in michigan. (3) includes ssr revenue, amounts collected from (refunded to) customers for certain fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from costs included in rates, and other revenues, partially offset by revenues from the mines that are being deferred until a future rate proceeding. for more information, see the discussion below under the heading "large electric retail customers." electric sales our electric energy deliveries included supply and distribution sales to retail and wholesale customers and distribution sales to those customers who switched to an alternative electric supplier. in 2016 , retail electric revenues accounted for 86.8% of total electric operating revenues, while wholesale and resale electric revenues accounted for 10.3% of total electric operating revenues. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations wisconsin segment contribution to operating income for information on mwh sales by customer class. our electric utilities are authorized to provide retail electric service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities, and in certain territories in the state of michigan pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities. our electric utilities buy and sell wholesale electric power by participating in the miso energy markets. the cost of our individual generation offered into the miso energy markets, compared to our competitors, affects how often our generating units are dispatched and how we buy and sell power. for more information, see item 1. business d. regulation. steam sales we has a steam utility that generates, distributes, and sells steam supplied by vapp to customers in metropolitan milwaukee, wisconsin. steam is used by customers for processing, space heating, domestic hot water, and humidification. annual sales of steam fluctuate from year to year based on system growth and variations in weather conditions. in april 2016, we sold the mcpp steam generation and distribution assets, located in wauwatosa, wisconsin. mcpp primarily provided steam to the milwaukee regional medical center hospitals and other campus buildings. see note 3, dispositions, for more information . 2016 form 10-k 4 wec energy group, inc. table of contents electric sales forecast our service territory experienced increased weather-normalized retail electric sales in 2016 due to both positive customer growth as well as the retirement of some customer generation as a result of epa regulations. however, we currently forecast retail electric sales volumes, excluding the tilden mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan, to remain relatively flat over the next five years, assuming normal weather. the associated electric peak demand is expected to grow at a rate of approximately 0.1% over the next five years, also assuming normal weather. the expected decline in retail electric sales volumes is due in part to the closing of a large industrial customer at the end of 2016 and continued energy conservation by our customers. customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 electric customers end of year residential 1,421.7 1,414.1 1,015.0 small commercial and industrial 171.1 171.1 115.4 large commercial and industrial 0.9 1.0 0.7 other 3.0 3.1 2.5 total electric customers end of year 1,596.7 1,589.3 1,133.6 electric customers average 1,593.1 1,584.4 1,130.7 steam customers average 0.4 0.4 0.4 large electric retail customers we provide electric utility service to a diversified base of customers in such industries as paper, governmental, food products, foundry, mining, health services, printing, and retail. in february 2015, our largest retail electric customers, two iron ore mines located in the upper peninsula of michigan, returned as customers after choosing an alternative electric supplier in september 2013. for more information on alternative electric suppliers, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources industry restructuring. we entered into a contract with each of the mines to provide full requirements electric service through december 31, 2019. since 2015, we have been deferring, and expect to continue to defer, the revenue less costs of sales from the mine sales and will apply these amounts for the benefit of wisconsin retail electric customers in a future rate proceeding. in 2016, one of the iron ore mines closed, and the related contract for full requirements electric service was terminated. in august 2016, we entered into a new agreement with the owner of the remaining mine under which it will purchase electric power from umerc for 20 years. the agreement also calls for umerc to construct and operate certain natural gas-fired generation located in the upper peninsula of michigan. the remaining iron ore mine will continue to receive full requirements electric service from we under the existing contract, as discussed above, until umerc's proposed generation solution in the upper peninsula of michigan begins commercial operation. see note 22, regulatory environment, for more information , as well as the discussion under the heading "upper michigan energy resources corporation" below. wholesale customers we provide wholesale electric service to various customers, including electric cooperatives, municipal joint action agencies, other investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities, and energy marketers. wholesale sales accounted for 7.4% , 6.0%, and 5.3% of total electric energy sales during 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. wholesale revenues accounted for 5.0% , 4.5% , and 3.8% of total electric operating revenues during 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. resale the majority of our sales for resale are sold to one rto, miso, at market rates based on availability of our generation and rto demand. resale sales accounted for 17.5% , 20.9%, and 18.5% of total electric energy sales during 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. resale revenues accounted for 5.3% , 6.1% , and 7.7% of total electric operating revenues during 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. retail fuel costs are reduced by the amount that revenue exceeds the costs of sales derived from these opportunity sales. 2016 form 10-k 5 wec energy group, inc. table of contents electric generation and supply mix our electric supply strategy is to provide our customers with energy from plants using a diverse fuel mix that is expected to maintain a stable, reliable, and affordable supply of electricity. through our participation in the miso energy markets, we supply a significant amount of electricity to our customers from power plants that we own. we supplement our internally generated power supply with long-term power purchase agreements, including the point beach power purchase agreement discussed under the heading "power purchase commitments," and through spot purchases in the miso energy markets. we also sell excess capacity into the miso energy markets when it is economical, which reduces net fuel costs by offsetting costs of purchased power. our rated capacity by fuel type as of december 31 is shown below. for more information on our electric generation facilities, see item 2. properties. rated capacity in mw (1) 2016 2015 2014 coal 4,933 4,955 3,707 natural gas: combined cycle 1,697 1,636 1,082 steam turbine (2) 320 305 118 natural gas/oil peaking units (3) 1,413 1,412 962 renewables (4) 273 269 155 total rated capacity 8,636 8,577 6,024 (1) rated capacity is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. we are a summer peaking electric utility, and amounts are based on expected capacity ratings for the following summer. the values were established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. (2) the natural gas steam turbine represents the rated capacity associated with the vapp units, which were converted from coal to natural gas in 2014 and 2015, as well as weston unit 2, which was converted from coal to natural gas in 2015. (3) the dual-fueled facilities generally burn oil only if natural gas is not available due to constraints on the natural gas pipeline and/or at the local natural gas distribution company that delivers natural gas to the plants. (4) includes hydroelectric, biomass, and wind generation. the table below indicates our sources of electric energy supply as a percentage of sales for the three years ended december 31, as well as estimates for 2017 : estimate actual 2017 2016 2015 2014 company-owned generation units: coal 51.3 % 45.7 % 51.5 % 55.2 % natural gas: combined cycle 11.3 % 18.2 % 14.6 % 8.7 % steam turbine 0.7 % 0.9 % 1.2 % 0.2 % natural gas/oil peaking units 0.2 % 1.1 % 0.6 % 0.2 % renewables 4.1 % 3.9 % 3.4 % 3.8 % total company-owned generation units 67.6 % 69.8 % 71.3 % 68.1 % power purchase contracts: nuclear 18.1 % 17.5 % 20.5 % 25.4 % natural gas 1.4 % 1.7 % 1.4 % 2.1 % renewables 3.2 % 2.8 % 1.5 % 2.7 % other 1.6 % 2.1 % 3.5 % 0.9 % total power purchase contracts 24.3 % 24.1 % 26.9 % 31.1 % purchased power from miso 8.1 % 6.1 % 1.8 % 0.8 % total purchased power 32.4 % 30.2 % 28.7 % 31.9 % total electric utility supply 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 2016 form 10-k 6 wec energy group, inc. table of contents coal-fired generation our coal-fired generation consists of eight operating plants with a rated capacity of 4,933 mw as of december 31, 2016 . for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. natural gas-fired generation our natural gas-fired generation consists of nine operating plants, including peaking units, with a rated capacity of 3,250 mw as of december 31, 2016 . for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. oil-fired generation fuel oil is used for combustion turbines at certain of our natural gas-fired plants as well as for ignition and flame stabilization at one of our coal-fired plants. our oil-fired generation had a rated capacity of 180 mw as of december 31, 2016 . we also have natural gas-fired peaking units with a rated capacity of 1,221 mw, which have the ability to burn oil if natural gas is not available due to delivery constraints. for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. renewable generation in order to comply with renewable energy legislation in wisconsin and michigan, our electric utilities meet a portion of their electric generation supply with various renewable energy resources. hydroelectric our hydroelectric generating system consists of 30 operating plants with a total installed capacity of 171 mw and a rated capacity of 150 mw as of december 31, 2016 . all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. wind we have six wind sites, consisting of 280 turbines, with an installed capacity of 447 mw and a rated capacity of 73 mw as of december 31, 2016 . biomass we have a biomass-fueled power plant at a rothschild, wisconsin paper mill site. wood waste and wood shavings are used to produce a rated capacity of approximately 50 mw of electric power as well as steam to support the paper mill's operations. fuel for the power plant is supplied by both the paper mill and through contracts with biomass suppliers. electric system reliability the pscw requires us to maintain a planning reserve margin above our projected annual peak demand forecast to help ensure reliability of electric service to our customers. these planning reserve requirements are consistent with the miso calculated planning reserve margin. in 2008, the pscw established a 14.5% reserve margin requirement for long-term planning (planning years two through ten). for short-term planning (planning year one), the pscw requires wisconsin utilities to follow the planning reserve margin established by miso. miso has a 15.2% reserve margin requirement for the planning year from june 1, 2016 , through may 31, 2017 . although miso's short-term reserve margin changes from year-to-year, fluctuations are typically less than 0.5%. the mpsc does not have minimum guidelines for future supply reserves. we had adequate capacity through company-owned generation units and power purchase contracts to meet the miso calculated planning reserve margin during 2016 and expect to have adequate capacity to meet the planning reserve margin requirements during 2017 . however, extremely hot weather, unexpected equipment failure or unavailability across the 15-state miso footprint could require us to call upon load management procedures. load management procedures allow for the reduction of energy use through agreements with customers to directly shut off their equipment or through interruptible service, where customers agree to reduce their load in the case of an emergency interruption. 2016 form 10-k 7 wec energy group, inc. table of contents fuel and purchased power costs our retail electric rates in wisconsin are established by the pscw and include base amounts for fuel and purchased power costs. the electric fuel rules set by the pscw allow us to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, under or over-collections of actual fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from the costs included in the rates charged to customers. for more information about the fuel rules, see item 1. business d. regulation. our average fuel and purchased power costs per mwh by fuel type were as follows for the years ended december 31: 2016 2015 2014 coal $ 23.09 $ 25.57 $ 27.68 natural gas combined cycle 18.79 17.66 40.64 natural gas/oil peaking units 45.08 56.99 129.83 purchased power 40.11 43.50 47.47 we purchase coal under long-term contracts, which helps with price stability. coal and associated transportation services have continued to see volatility in pricing due to changing domestic and world-wide demand for coal and the impacts of diesel costs, which are incorporated into fuel surcharges on rail transportation. certain of our coal transportation contracts contain fuel cost adjustments that are tied to changes in diesel fuel and crude oil prices. currently, diesel fuel contracts are not actively traded. therefore, we use financial heating oil contracts to mitigate risk related to diesel fuel prices. we purchase natural gas for our plants on the spot market from natural gas marketers, utilities, and producers, and we arrange for transportation of the natural gas to our plants. we have firm and interruptible transportation, as well as balancing and storage agreements, intended to support our plants' variable usage. we and wps both have a pscw-approved hedging program that allows them to hedge up to 75% of their potential risks related to fuel surcharge exposure. we and wps also have a program that allows them to hedge up to 75% of their estimated natural gas use for electric generation in order to help manage their natural gas price risk. these hedging programs are generally implemented on a 36-month forward-looking basis. the results of all of these programs are reflected in the average costs of natural gas and purchased power. coal supply we diversify the coal supply for our electric generating facilities and jointly-owned plants by purchasing coal from several mines in wyoming, as well as from various other states. for 2017 , approximately 76% of our total projected coal requirements of approximately 14 million tons are contracted under fixed-price contracts. see note 18, commitments and contingencies, for more information on amounts of coal purchases and coal deliveries under contract. the annual tonnage amounts contracted for the next three years are as follows: (in thousands) annual tonnage 2017 10,664 2018 7,968 2019 4,032 coal deliveries all of our 2017 coal requirements are expected to be shipped by our owned or leased unit trains under existing transportation agreements. the unit trains transport the coal for electric generating facilities from mines in wyoming, pennsylvania, and montana. the coal is transported by train to our rail-served electric-generating facilities and to dock storage in superior, wisconsin, until needed by our lake vessel-served facilities. additional small volume agreements may also be used to supplement the normal coal supply for our facilities. 2016 form 10-k 8 wec energy group, inc. table of contents midcontinent independent system operator costs in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso developed and operates the miso energy markets, which include its bid-based energy market and ancillary services market. we are participants in the miso energy markets. for more information on miso, see item 1. business d. regulation. power purchase commitments we enter into short and long-term power purchase commitments to meet a portion of our anticipated electric energy supply needs. as of december 31, 2016 , our power purchase commitments with unaffiliated parties for the next five years are 1,444 mw per year. this amount includes 1,033 mw per year related to a long-term power purchase agreement for electricity generated by point beach. other matters seasonality our electric utility sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions. we sell more electricity during the summer months because of the residential cooling load. we continue to upgrade our electric distribution system, including substations, transformers, and lines, to meet the demand of our customers. our generating plants performed as expected during the warmest periods of the summer, and all power purchase commitments under firm contract were received. during this period, we did not require public appeals for conservation, and it did not interrupt or curtail service to non-firm customers who participate in load management programs. in addition, wps did not require any public appeals for conservation, and it did not interrupt or curtail service to non-firm customers who participate in load management programs for capacity reasons. however, wps did have service curtailments for economic interruptions. economic interruptions are declared during times in which the price of electricity in the regional market significantly exceeds the cost of operating the company's peaking generation. during this time, interruptible customers can choose to continue using electricity at a price which exceeds the tariff rate. competition our electric utilities face competition from various entities and other forms of energy sources available to customers, including self-generation by large industrial customers and alternative energy sources. our electric utilities compete with other utilities for sales to municipalities and cooperatives as well as with other utilities and marketers for wholesale electric business. for more information on competition in our service territories, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources industry restructuring. environmental matters for information regarding environmental matters, especially as they relate to coal-fired generating facilities, see note 18, commitments and contingencies . natural gas utility operations for the periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k, our wisconsin natural gas utility operations include wg's and we's natural gas operations for all periods and wps's natural gas operations, including in the upper peninsula of michigan, beginning july 1, 2015, due to the acquisition of integrys and its subsidiaries. effective january 1, 2017, wps natural gas customers and natural gas distribution assets located in the upper peninsula of michigan were transferred to umerc. more information about umerc is included at the end of the wisconsin segment section, under the heading upper michigan resources corporation. we are authorized to provide retail natural gas distribution service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities. we also transport customer-owned natural gas. together our natural gas distribution utilities are the largest in wisconsin, and we operate throughout the state, including the city of milwaukee and surrounding areas, northeastern wisconsin, and in large areas of both central and western wisconsin. 2016 form 10-k 9 wec energy group, inc. table of contents natural gas utility operating statistics the following table shows certain natural gas utility operating statistics at our wisconsin segment for the past three years: year ended december 31 2016 2015 (1) 2014 operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 763.2 $ 696.2 $ 925.3 commercial and industrial 355.3 332.8 506.0 total retail revenues 1,118.5 1,029.0 1,431.3 transport 69.7 62.8 54.2 other operating revenues (2) (10.6 ) 30.8 10.6 total $ 1,177.6 $ 1,122.6 $ 1,496.1 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 1,311.0 1,299.7 993.9 commercial and industrial 124.3 123.4 93.3 transport 2.6 2.6 1.8 total customers 1,437.9 1,425.7 1,089.0 customers average (in thousands) 1,429.8 1,417.8 1,081.5 (1) includes the operations of wps beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. (2) includes amounts (refunded to) collected from customers for purchased gas adjustment costs. natural gas deliveries our gas therm deliveries include customer-owned transported natural gas. transported natural gas accounted for approximately 43.9% of the total volumes delivered during 2016 , 41.8% during 2015 , and 36.1% during 2014 . our peak daily send-out during 2016 was 23.5 million therms on january 18, 2016 . large natural gas customers we provide natural gas utility service to a diversified base of industrial customers who are largely within our electric service territory. major industries served include governmental, food products, education, real estate, and metals. fuel used for we's electric generation represents our largest transportation customer. natural gas therms delivered to we for electric generation represented 15.3% of total volumes delivered during each of 2016 and 2015, and 9.3% during 2014. natural gas sales forecast our combined service territories in wisconsin experienced growth in weather-normalized retail natural gas deliveries (excluding natural gas deliveries for electric generation) in 2016 due to positive customer growth, an improving economy, and favorable natural gas prices. we currently forecast retail natural gas delivery volumes to grow at a rate between flat and 0.5% over the next five years, assuming normal weather. the forecast projects positive customer growth being offset by energy efficiency. natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we have been able to meet our contractual obligations with both our suppliers and our customers. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 18, commitments and contingencies . 2016 form 10-k 10 wec energy group, inc. table of contents pipeline capacity and storage the interstate pipelines serving wisconsin originate in major natural gas producing areas of north america: the oklahoma and texas basins, western canada, and the rocky mountains. we have contracted for long-term firm capacity from a number of these sources. this strategy reflects management's belief that overall supply security is enhanced by geographic diversification of the supply portfolio. due to the daily and seasonal variations in natural gas usage in wisconsin, we have also contracted for substantial underground storage capacity, primarily in michigan. we target storage inventory levels at approximately 35% of forecasted winter demand; november through march is considered the winter season. storage capacity, along with our natural gas purchase contracts, enables us to manage significant changes in daily demand and to optimize our overall natural gas supply and capacity costs. we generally inject natural gas into storage during the spring and summer months when demand is lower and withdraw it in the winter months. as a result, we can contract for less long-line pipeline capacity during periods of peak usage than would otherwise be necessary and can purchase natural gas on a more uniform daily basis from suppliers year-round. each of these capabilities enables us to reduce our overall costs. we hold daily transportation and storage capacity entitlements with interstate pipeline companies as well as other service providers under varied-length long-term contracts. in january 2017, we signed an agreement for the acquisition of a natural gas storage facility in michigan that would provide approximately one-third of the storage needs for our wisconsin natural gas utilities. see note 2, acquisitions, for more information on this transaction. term natural gas supply we have contracts for firm supplies with terms of 3 5 months with suppliers for natural gas acquired in the chicago, illinois market hub and in the producing areas discussed above. the pricing of the term contracts is based upon first of the month indices. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of natural gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. our wisconsin natural gas utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 31.2 million therms for the 2016 through 2017 heating season. secondary market transactions pipeline and storage capacity and natural gas supplies under contract can be resold in secondary markets. as local distribution companies, our wisconsin natural gas utilities must contract for capacity and supply sufficient to meet the firm peak-day demand of their customers. peak or near peak demand days generally occur only a few times each year. the secondary markets facilitate higher utilization of contracted capacity and supply during those times when the full contracted capacity and supply are not needed by the utility, helping to mitigate the fixed costs associated with maintaining peak levels of capacity and natural gas supply. through pre-arranged agreements and day-to-day electronic bulletin board postings, interested parties can purchase this excess capacity and supply. the proceeds from these transactions are passed through to customers, subject to our approved gcrms. during 2016 , we continued to participate in the secondary markets. for information on the gcrms, see note 1(d), revenues and customer receivables. spot market natural gas supply we expect to continue to make natural gas purchases in the spot market as price and other circumstances dictate. we have supply relationships with a number of sellers from whom we purchase natural gas in the spot market. hedging natural gas supply prices we and wg have pscw approval to hedge up to 60% of planned winter demand and up to 15% of planned summer demand using a mix of nymex-based natural gas options and futures contracts. wps has pscw approval to hedge up to 67% of planned winter demand using a combination of planned withdrawals from storage and nymex financial instruments. these approvals allow these companies to pass 100% of the hedging costs (premiums and brokerage fees) and proceeds (gains and losses) to customers through their respective gcrms. hedge targets (volumes) are provided annually to the pscw as part of each company's three-year natural gas supply plan and risk management filing. 2016 form 10-k 11 wec energy group, inc. table of contents to the extent that opportunities develop and physical supply operating plans are supportive, we, wg, and wps also have pscw approval to utilize nymex-based natural gas derivatives to capture favorable forward-market price differentials. these approvals provide for 100% of the related proceeds to accrue to these companies' respective gcrms. seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to some variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition competition in varying degrees exists between natural gas and other forms of energy available to consumers. a number of our large commercial and industrial customers are dual-fuel customers that are equipped to switch between natural gas and alternative fuels. we are allowed to offer lower-priced natural gas sales and transportation services to dual-fuel customers. under natural gas transportation agreements, customers purchase natural gas directly from natural gas marketers and arrange with interstate pipelines and us to have the natural gas transported to their facilities. we earn substantially the same operating income whether we sell and transport natural gas to customers or only transport their natural gas. our ability to maintain our share of the industrial dual-fuel market depends on our success and the success of third-party natural gas marketers in obtaining long-term and short-term supplies of natural gas at competitive prices compared to other sources and in arranging or facilitating competitively priced transportation service for those customers that desire to buy their own natural gas supplies. federal and state regulators continue to implement policies to bring more competition to the natural gas industry. while the natural gas utility distribution function is expected to remain a highly regulated, monopoly function, the sale of the natural gas commodity and related services are expected to remain subject to competition from third parties for large commercial and industrial customers. upper michigan energy resources corporation in december 2016, both the mpsc and the pscw approved the operation of umerc as a stand-alone utility in the upper peninsula of michigan. umerc became operational effective january 1, 2017, and we and wps transferred customers and property, plant, and equipment as of that date. we transferred approximately 27,500 retail electric customers and 50 electric distribution-only customers to umerc, along with approximately 2,500 miles of electric distribution lines. wps transferred approximately 9,000 retail electric customers and 5,300 natural gas customers to umerc, along with approximately 600 miles of electric distribution lines and approximately 100 miles of natural gas distribution mains. we and wps also transferred related electric distribution substations in the upper peninsula of michigan and all property rights for the distribution assets to umerc. the estimated net book value of the property, plant, and equipment transferred to umerc from we and wps as of january 1, 2017, was $83 million and $19 million, respectively. this transaction was a non-cash equity transfer between entities under common control, and therefore, did not result in a gain or loss recognized. umerc obtains its energy through the miso energy markets and meets its market obligations through power purchase agreements with we and wps. the new utility has also proposed a long-term generation solution for electric reliability in the region. see note 22, regulatory environment, for more information . the tilden mining company will remain a customer of we until this new generation begins commercial operation. 2016 form 10-k 12 wec energy group, inc. table of contents illinois segment our illinois segment includes the natural gas utility operations of pgl and nsg. pgl and nsg, both illinois corporations, began operations in 1855 and 1900, respectively. we acquired pgl and nsg as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. our customers are located in chicago and the northern suburbs of chicago. illinois utilities operating statistics the following table shows certain illinois utility operating statistics since the acquisition of integrys. year ended december 31 2016 2015 * operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 839.2 $ 309.8 commercial and industrial 136.5 50.4 total retail revenues 975.7 360.2 transport 239.4 97.1 other operating revenues 27.1 46.1 total $ 1,242.2 $ 503.4 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 846.8 838.2 commercial and industrial 47.1 46.2 transport 109.5 107.8 total customers 1,003.4 992.2 customers average (in thousands) 1,005.3 982.3 * includes the operations of pgl and nsg beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, peak-shaving facilities, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 18, commitments and contingencies . we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having multiple pipelines that serve our natural gas service territory benefits our customers by improving reliability, providing access to a diverse supply of natural gas, and fostering competition among these service providers. these benefits can lead to favorable conditions for our illinois utilities when negotiating new agreements for transportation and storage services. our illinois utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. they hedge between 25% and 50% of natural gas purchases, with a target of 37.5%. we own a 38.3 bcf storage field (manlove field in central illinois) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. storage allows us to manage significant changes in daily natural gas demand and to purchase steady levels of natural gas on a year-round basis, which provides a hedge against supply cost volatility. we also own a natural gas pipeline system that connects manlove field to chicago and eight major interstate pipelines. these assets are directed primarily to serving rate-regulated retail customers and are included in our regulatory rate base. we also use a portion of these company-owned storage and pipeline assets as a natural gas hub, which consists of providing transportation and storage services in interstate commerce to our wholesale customers. customers deliver natural gas to us for storage through an injection into the storage reservoir, and we return the natural gas to the customers under an agreed schedule through a withdrawal from the storage 2016 form 10-k 13 wec energy group, inc. table of contents reservoir. title to the natural gas does not transfer to us. we recognize service fees associated with the natural gas hub services provided to wholesale customers. these service fees reduce the cost of natural gas and services charged to retail customers in rates. we had adequate capacity to meet all firm natural gas demand obligations during 2016 and expect to have adequate capacity to meet all firm demand obligations during 2017. our illinois utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 24.4 million therms for the 2016 through 2017 heating season. gas system modernization program pgl is continuing work on the smp, a project that began in 2011 under which pgl is replacing approximately 2,000 miles of chicago's aging natural gas pipeline infrastructure. pgl currently recovers these costs through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an icc approved qualifying infrastructure plant rider, which is in effect through 2023. for information on investigations related to the smp, see note 22, regulatory environment . seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our illinois utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition although our illinois utilities' rates are regulated by the icc, we still face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. absent extraordinary circumstances, potential competitors are not allowed to construct competing natural gas distribution systems in our service territory due to a judicial doctrine known as the "first in the field." in addition, we believe it would be impractical to construct competing duplicate distribution facilities due to the high cost of installation. since 2002, all our illinois utilities' natural gas customers have had the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. as a result, we offer natural gas transportation service to enable customers to directly manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution system to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. an interstate pipeline may seek to provide transportation service directly to end users, which would bypass our natural gas transportation service. however, we have a bypass rate approved by the icc, which allows us to negotiate rates with customers that are potential bypass candidates to help ensure that such customers use our transportation service. other states segment our other states segment includes the natural gas utility operations of merc and mgu. we acquired the natural gas distribution operations of merc and mgu, located in minnesota and michigan, respectively, on june 29, 2015, with the acquisition of integrys. merc serves customers in various cities and communities throughout minnesota, and mgu serves customers in the southern portion of lower michigan. 2016 form 10-k 14 wec energy group, inc. table of contents other states utilities operating statistics the following table shows certain other states utility operating statistics since the acquisition of integrys. year ended december 31 2016 2015 * operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 209.3 $ 67.6 commercial and industrial 110.7 38.8 total retail revenues 320.0 106.4 transport 31.7 11.5 other operating revenues 24.8 31.4 total $ 376.5 $ 149.3 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 348.1 345.8 commercial and industrial 34.1 33.8 transport 24.8 23.0 total customers 407.0 402.6 customers average (in thousands) 402.8 401.5 * includes the operations of merc and mgu beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, peak-shaving facilities, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 18, commitments and contingencies . we own a storage field (partello in michigan) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. storage allows us to manage significant changes in daily natural gas demand and to purchase steady levels of natural gas on a year-round basis, which provides a hedge against supply cost volatility. we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having multiple pipelines that serve our natural gas service territory benefits our customers by improving reliability, providing access to a diverse supply of natural gas, and fostering competition among these service providers. these benefits can lead to favorable conditions for our other states utilities when negotiating new agreements for transportation and storage services. our other states utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. merc hedges up to 30% of planned winter demand using nymex financial instruments. mgu hedges up to 20% of its planned annual purchases using nymex financial instruments. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. forecasted design peak-day throughput for our other states utilities segment is 8.7 million therms for the 2016 through 2017 heating season. seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. 2016 form 10-k 15 wec energy group, inc. table of contents our other states utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition although our other states utilities' rates are regulated by the mpuc and mspc, we still face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. many large commercial and industrial customers have the ability to switch between natural gas and alternative fuels. due to the volatility of energy commodity prices, we have seen customers with dual fuel capability switch to alternative fuels for short periods of time, then switch back to natural gas as market rates change. merc commercial and industrial customers and all mgu customers have the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. we offer natural gas transportation service and also offer interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution systems to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change. electric transmission segment american transmission company atc is a regional transmission company that owns, maintains, monitors, and operates electric transmission systems in wisconsin, michigan, illinois, and minnesota. atc is expected to provide comparable service to all customers, including we and wps, and to support effective competition in energy markets without favoring any market participant. atc is regulated by the ferc for all rate terms and conditions of service and is a transmission-owning member of miso. miso maintains operational control of atc's transmission system, and we and wps are non-transmission owning members and customers of miso. as of december 31, 2016 , our ownership interest in atc was approximately 60%. in addition, we own approximately 68% of atc holdco, llc, a separate entity formed in december 2016 to invest in transmission related projects outside of atc's traditional footprint. as of december 31, 2016, operations were not significant. in april 2011, atc and duke energy announced the creation of a joint venture, datc, that will seek opportunities to acquire, build, own, and operate new electric transmission infrastructure in north america to address increasing demand for affordable, reliable transmission capacity. in april 2013, datc acquired a 72% interest in california's path 15 transmission line. datc continues to evaluate new projects and opportunities, along with participating in the competitive bidding process on projects it considers viable. however, in january 2017, a subsidiary of atc holdco, llc and arizona electric power cooperative entered into a joint operating agreement, atc southwest, to develop transmission projects in arizona and the southwestern united states. these projects are located in the service territories of several different rtos around the country. see note 4, investment in american transmission company, for more information . atc is currently named in a complaint filed with the ferc requesting a reduction in the base roe used by miso transmission owners. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources other matters american transmission company allowed return on equity complaints, for more information. c. non-utility operations we power segment we power, through wholly owned subsidiaries, designed and built approximately 2,350 mw of generation in wisconsin. this generation is made up of capacity from the ergs units, er 1 and er 2, which were placed in service in february 2010 and january 2011, respectively, and the pwgs units, pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, which were placed in service in july 2005 and may 2008, respectively. two unaffiliated entities collectively own approximately 17%, or approximately 211 mw, of er 1 and er 2. all four of 2016 form 10-k 16 wec energy group, inc. table of contents these units are being leased to we under long-term leases (the ergs units have 30-year leases and the pwgs units have 25-year leases), and are positioned to provide a significant portion of our future generation needs. because of the significant investment necessary to construct these generating units, we constructed the plants under wisconsin's leased generation law, which allows a non-utility affiliate to construct an electric generating facility and lease it to the public utility. the law allows a public utility that has entered into a lease approved by the pscw to recover fully in its retail electric rates that portion of any payments under the lease that the pscw has allocated to the public utility's wisconsin retail electric service, and all other costs that are prudently incurred in the public utility's operation and maintenance of the electric generating facility allocated to the utility's wisconsin retail electric service. in addition, the pscw may not modify or terminate a lease it has approved under the leased generation law except as specifically provided in the lease or the pscw's order approving the lease. this law effectively created regulatory certainty in light of the significant investment being made to construct the units. all four units were constructed under leases approved by the pscw. we are recovering our costs of these units, including subsequent capital additions, through lease payments that are billed from we power to we and then recovered in we's rates as authorized by the pscw, the mpsc, and the ferc. under the lease terms, our return is calculated using a 12.7% roe and the equity ratio is assumed to be 55% for the ergs units and 53% for the pwgs units. corporate and other segment the corporate and other segment includes the operations of the wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, and the pellc holding company, as well as the operations of wispark, bostco, wisvest (prior to the sale of these assets in the first quarter of 2016), wecc, wbs, pdl, and itf (prior to the sale of this business in the first quarter of 2016). see note 3, dispositions, for more information on the sale of wisvest's assets and itf. bostco and wispark develop and invest in real estate, and combined they had $69.0 million in real estate holdings at december 31, 2016 . wispark has developed several business parks and other commercial real estate projects, primarily in southeastern wisconsin. wisvest was originally formed to develop, own, and operate electric generating facilities and to invest in other energy-related entities. however, wisvest discontinued its development activity several years ago. in april 2016, we sold the chilled water generation and distribution assets of wisvest, which provided chilled water services to the milwaukee regional medical center. see note 3, dispositions, for more information. wisvest no longer has significant operations. wecc was originally formed to invest in non-utility projects, such as low income housing developments. however, due to a focus on our regulated utility business, wecc sold many of its non-utility investments and no longer has significant operations. wbs is a wholly owned centralized service company that provides administrative and general support services to our regulated utilities. wbs also provides certain administrative and support services to our nonregulated entities. pdl owns distributed renewable solar projects. during 2016, pdl sold its natural gas-fired cogeneration facility and its landfill gas facility. these facilities were not significant to our operations. pdl's solar facilities rely on solar irradiance, a renewable energy resource. there is no market price risk associated with the fuel supply of these solar projects. however, production at these facilities can be intermittent due to the variability of solar irradiance. d. regulation we are a holding company and are subject to the requirements of the public utility holding company act of 2005 (puhca 2005). we also have various subsidiaries that meet the definition of a holding company under puhca 2005 and are also subject to its requirements. pursuant to the non-utility asset cap provisions of wisconsin's public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. however, among other items, the law exempts energy-related assets, including the generating plants constructed by we power, from being counted against the asset cap provided that they are employed in qualifying businesses. we report to the pscw annually our compliance with this law and provide supporting documentation to show that our non-utility assets are below the non-utility asset cap. 2016 form 10-k 17 wec energy group, inc. table of contents regulated utility operations in addition to the specific regulations noted above and below, our utilities are also subject to regulations, where applicable, of the epa, the wdnr, the mdeq, the michigan department of natural resources, the illinois environmental protection agency, the united states army corps of engineers, the minnesota department of natural resources, and the minnesota pollution control agency. rates our utilities' rates were regulated by the various commissions shown in the table below as of december 31, 2016. these commissions have general supervisory and regulatory powers over public utilities in their respective jurisdictions. regulated rates regulatory commission we retail electric, natural gas, and steam pscw retail electric mpsc * wholesale power ferc wps retail electric and natural gas pscw and mpsc * wholesale power ferc wg retail natural gas pscw pgl retail natural gas icc nsg retail natural gas icc merc retail natural gas mpuc mgu retail natural gas mpsc * effective january 1, 2017, all of we's and wps's electric and natural gas distribution assets and customers located in the upper peninsula of michigan were transferred to umerc, with the exception of the tilden mining company which will continue to be a customer of we. see item 1. business b. utility energy operations wisconsin segment upper michigan energy resources corporation and note 22, regulatory environment , for additional information. embedded within we's and wps's electric rates is an amount to recover fuel and purchased power costs. the wisconsin retail fuel rules require a utility to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, any under-collection or over-collection of fuel and purchased power costs that are outside of the utility's symmetrical fuel cost tolerance, which the pscw typically sets at plus or minus 2% of the utility's approved fuel and purchased power cost plan. the deferred fuel and purchased power costs are subject to an excess revenues test. if the utility's roe in a given year exceeds the roe authorized by the pscw, the recovery of under-collected fuel and purchased power costs would be reduced by the amount by which the utility's return exceeds the authorized amount. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers and our wisconsin wholesale electric customers. our natural gas utilities operate under gcrms as approved by their respective state regulator. generally, the gcrms allow for a dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs. for a summary of the significant mechanisms our utility subsidiaries had in place in 2016 that allowed them to recover or refund changes in prudently incurred costs from rate case-approved amounts, see note 1(d), revenues and customer receivables . in may 2015, the pscw approved the acquisition of integrys on the condition that we and wg each be subject to an earnings sharing mechanism for three years beginning january 1, 2016 . see note 2, acquisitions, for more information on these earnings sharing mechanisms. 2016 form 10-k 18 wec energy group, inc. table of contents for information on how rates are set for our regulated entities, see note 22, regulatory environment . orders from our respective regulators can be viewed at the following websites: regulatory commission website pscw https://psc.wi.gov/ icc https://www.icc.illinois.gov/ mpsc http://www.michigan.gov/mpsc/ mpuc http://mn.gov/puc/ ferc http://www.ferc.gov/ the material and information contained on these websites are not intended to be a part of, nor are they incorporated by reference into, this annual report on form 10-k. the following table compares our utility operating revenues by regulatory jurisdiction for each of the three years ended december 31: 2016 2015 2014 (in millions) amount percent amount percent amount percent electric * wisconsin $ 3,974.8 85.9 % $ 3,466.3 85.2 % $ 2,990.4 86.8 % michigan 175.0 3.8 % 173.1 4.3 % 58.8 1.7 % ferc wholesale 478.3 10.3 % 429.1 10.5 % 396.0 11.5 % total 4,628.1 100.0 % 4,068.5 100.0 % 3,445.2 100.0 % natural gas * wisconsin 1,174.2 42.0 % 1,121.3 63.2 % 1,496.1 100.0 % illinois 1,242.2 44.4 % 503.4 28.4 % % minnesota 249.4 8.9 % 98.3 5.5 % % michigan 130.5 4.7 % 52.3 2.9 % % total 2,796.3 100.0 % 1,775.3 100.0 % 1,496.1 100.0 % total utility operating revenues $ 7,424.4 $ 5,843.8 $ 4,941.3 * includes the operations of wps, pgl, nsg, merc, and mgu beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. electric transmission, capacity, and energy markets in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso developed bid-based energy markets, which were implemented on april 1, 2005. in january 2009, miso enhanced the energy market by including an ancillary services market. in the miso ancillary services market, we buy/sell regulation and contingency reserves from/to the market. the miso ancillary services market has been able to reduce overall ancillary services costs in the miso footprint, and has enabled miso to assume significant balancing area responsibilities such as frequency control and disturbance control. in miso, base transmission costs are currently being paid by load-serving entities located in the service territories of each miso transmission owner. the ferc has previously confirmed the use of the current transmission cost allocation methodology. certain additional costs for new transmission projects are allocated throughout the miso footprint. as part of miso, a market-based platform was developed for valuing transmission congestion premised upon the lmp system that has been implemented in certain northeastern and mid-atlantic states. the lmp system includes the ability to hedge transmission congestion costs through arrs and ftrs. arrs are allocated to market participants by miso, and ftrs are purchased through auctions. a new allocation and auction were completed for the period of june 1, 2016, through may 31, 2017. the resulting arr valuation and the secured ftrs are expected to mitigate our transmission congestion risk for that period. beginning june 1, 2013, miso instituted an annual zonal resource adequacy requirement to ensure there is sufficient generation capacity to serve the miso market. to meet this requirement, capacity resources could be acquired through miso's annual capacity auction, bilateral contracts for capacity, or provided from generating or demand response resources. our capacity requirements during 2016 were fulfilled using our own capacity resources. 2016 form 10-k 19 wec energy group, inc. table of contents other electric regulations we and wps are subject to the federal power act and the corresponding regulations developed by certain federal agencies. the energy policy act amended the federal power act in 2005 to, among other things, make electric utility industry consolidation more feasible, authorize the ferc to review proposed mergers and the acquisition of generation facilities, change the ferc regulatory scheme applicable to qualifying cogeneration facilities, and modify certain other aspects of energy regulations and federal tax policies applicable to us. additionally, the energy policy act created an electric reliability organization to be overseen by the ferc, which established mandatory electric reliability standards and has the authority to levy monetary sanctions for failure to comply with these standards. as of december 31, 2016, wps and we were subject to act 141 in wisconsin and public acts 295 and 342 in michigan, which contain certain minimum requirements for renewable energy generation. see note 18, commitments and contingencies, for more information . due to the transfer of wps's electric and natural gas distribution assets and customers located in the upper peninsula of michigan to umerc on january 1, 2017, wps is no longer subject to public acts 295 and 342 in michigan. we will continue to be subject to the michigan acts, along with umerc, as long as the tilden mining company remains a customer of we. see item 1. business b. utility energy operations wisconsin segment upper michigan energy resources corporation and note 22, regulatory environment , for additional information on the formation of umerc. all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. other natural gas regulations almost all of the natural gas we distribute is transported to our distribution systems by interstate pipelines. the pipelines' transportation and storage services, including pgl's natural gas hub, are regulated by the ferc under the natural gas act and the natural gas policy act of 1978. in addition, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration and the state commissions are responsible for monitoring and enforcing requirements governing our natural gas utilities' safety compliance programs for our pipelines under the united states department of transportation regulations. these regulations include 49 code of federal regulations (cfr) part 191 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline; annual reports, incident reports, and safety-related condition reports), 49 cfr part 192 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards), and 49 cfr part 195 (transportation of hazardous liquids by pipeline). we are required to provide natural gas service and grant credit (with applicable deposit requirements) to customers within our service territories. we are generally not allowed to discontinue natural gas service during winter moratorium months to residential heating customers who do not pay their bills. federal and certain state governments have programs that provide for a limited amount of funding for assistance to low-income customers of the utilities. non-utility operations the generation facilities constructed by wholly owned subsidiaries of we power are being leased on a long-term basis to we. environmental permits necessary for operating the facilities are the responsibility of the operating entity, we. we power received determinations from the ferc that upon the transfer of the facilities by lease to we, we power's subsidiaries would not be deemed public utilities under the federal power act and thus would not be subject to the ferc's jurisdiction. e. environmental compliance our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation of ghg emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, or wastewater discharges, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs. anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital requirements. for a discussion of matters related to manufactured gas plant sites and air and water quality, see note 18, commitments and contingencies . 2016 form 10-k 20 wec energy group, inc. table of contents f. employees as of december 31, 2016 , we had the following number of employees: total employees number of full-time employees we 3,099 3,021 wps 1,224 1,169 wg 406 397 pgl 1,508 1,507 nsg 165 164 merc 221 218 mgu 163 160 wbs 1,376 1,345 other 2 2 total employees 8,164 7,983 2016 form 10-k 21 wec energy group, inc. table of contents as of december 31, 2016 , we had employees represented under labor agreements with the following bargaining units: number of employees expiration date of current labor agreement we local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 1,667 august 15, 2017 local 420 of international union of operating engineers, afl-cio 458 september 30, 2017 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america, afl-cio 119 april 30, 2017 local 510 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 106 october 31, 2020 total we 2,350 wps local 420 of international union of operating engineers, afl-cio 863 april 16, 2021 wg local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 85 august 15, 2017 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america, afl-cio 195 april 30, 2017 local 2006 unit 3 of united steel workers of america, afl-cio 3 february 28, 2018 total wg 283 pgl local 18007 of utility workers union of america, afl-cio 935 april 30, 2018 local 18007(c) of utility workers union of america, afl-cio * 80 july 31, 2018 total pgl 1,015 nsg local 2285 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 122 june 30, 2019 merc local 31 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 41 may 31, 2020 mgu local 12295 of united steelworkers of america, afl-cio-clc 78 january 15, 2020 local 417 of utility workers union of america, afl-cio 31 february 15, 2019 total mgu 109 total represented employees 4,783 * in september 2016, local 18007(c) of utility workers union of america, afl-cio was formed under local 18007 of the utility workers union of america, afl-cio to add a group of customer service employees to the union. 2016 form 10-k 22 wec energy group, inc. table of contents item 1a. risk factors we are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the sec from time to time, when making an investment decision. risks related to legislation and regulation our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local, and federal governmental regulation, including regulation by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. this regulation significantly influences our operating environment and may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers. many aspects of our operations are regulated, including, but not limited to: the rates we charge our retail electric, natural gas, and steam customers; wholesale power service practices; electric reliability requirements and accounting; participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market; standards of service; issuance of securities; short-term debt obligations; construction and operation of facilities; transactions with affiliates; and billing practices. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to customer refunds, penalties, and other payments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the rates, including adjustments determined under riders, we are allowed to charge our customers for retail and wholesale services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. rate regulation is based on providing an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent on regulatory action, and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. in addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable roe. we defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured, and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. if recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses for our existing operations, have complied with all of their associated terms, and that our businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws. these permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. in addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal, state, and local agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. we cannot predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies. changes in regulations, interpretations of regulations, or the imposition of new regulations could influence our operating environment, may result in substantial compliance costs, or may require us to change our business operations. if we are unable to obtain, renew, or comply with these governmental permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional requirements or any other associated costs in customer rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may face significant costs to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. our operations are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions (including co 2, methane, mercury, so 2 , and nox), water quality, wastewater discharges, and management of hazardous, toxic, and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant costs to comply with these environmental requirements, including costs associated with the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at our facilities. in addition, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa adopted and implemented (or is in the process of implementing) regulations governing the emission of nox, so 2 , fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the caa through the naaqs, the mats rule, the clean power plan, the 2016 form 10-k 23 wec energy group, inc. table of contents csapr, and other air quality regulations. in addition, the epa finalized regulations under the clean water act that govern cooling water intake structures at our power plants and revised the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants. the epa has also adopted a final rule that would expand traditional federal jurisdiction over navigable waters and related wetlands for permitting and other regulatory matters; however, this rule has been stayed. we continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. in addition, as a result of the new federal executive administration taking office in january 2017 and other factors, there is uncertainty as to what capital expenditures or additional costs may ultimately be required to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level that could result in significant additional expenditures for our generation units or distribution systems, including, without limitation, costs to further limit ghg emissions from our operations; operating restrictions on our facilities; and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and compliance with rules regulating our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. any such regulation may also create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could affect the availability and/or cost of fossil fuels. as a result, certain of our coal-fired electric generating facilities may become uneconomical to maintain and operate, which could result in some of these units being retired early or converted to an alternative type of fuel. for example, we expect to retire the remaining pulliam coal-fired units in the next several years. if generation facility owners in the midwest, including us, retire a significant number of older coal-fired generation facilities, a potential reduction in the region's capacity reserve margin below acceptable risk levels may result. this could impair the reliability of the grid in the midwest, particularly during peak demand periods. a reduction in available future capacity could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers' needs. our electric and natural gas utilities are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental impacts at certain of our current and former facilities and at third-party owned sites. we accrue liabilities and defer costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with our former manufactured gas plant sites. these costs include all costs incurred to date that we expect to recover, management's best estimates of future costs for investigation and remediation, and related legal expenses, and are net of amounts recovered by or that may be recovered from insurance or other third parties. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future, as well as the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate or could vary from the amounts currently accrued. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury, property damage, and other claims for damages alleged to have been caused by environmental impacts and alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. in addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of facilities that we previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during, or after the time we owned or operated these facilities. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. federal, state, regional, and international authorities have undertaken efforts to limit ghg emissions. in 2015, the epa issued the clean power plan, which is a final rule that regulates ghg emissions from existing generating units, as well as a proposed federal plan as an alternative to state compliance plans. the epa also issued final performance standards for modified and reconstructed generating units, as well as for new fossil-fueled power plants. with the january 2017 change in the federal executive administration, the legal and regulatory future of federal ghg regulations, including the clean power plan, faces increased uncertainty. we are continuing to analyze the ghg emission profile of our electric generation resources and to work with other stakeholders to determine the potential impacts to our operations of the clean power plan, any successor rule, and federal ghg 2016 form 10-k 24 wec energy group, inc. table of contents regulations in general. in october 2015, numerous states (including wisconsin and michigan), trade associations, and private parties filed lawsuits challenging the clean power plan, including a request to stay the implementation of the final rule pending the outcome of these legal challenges. the d.c. circuit court of appeals denied the stay request, but in february 2016, the supreme court stayed the effectiveness of the clean power plan rules until disposition of the litigation in the d.c. circuit court of appeals and to the extent that further appellate review is sought, at the supreme court. in addition, in february 2016, the governor of wisconsin issued executive order 186, which prohibits state agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or other state entities from developing or promoting the development of a state plan. the clean power plan or its successor is not expected to result in significant additional compliance costs, including capital expenditures, but may impact how we operate our existing fossil-fueled power plants and biomass facility. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with the clean power plan or other federal regulations, or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. the clean power plan and any other related regulations that may be adopted in the future, at either the federal or state level, may cause our environmental compliance spending to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. in december 2016, michigan enacted act 342, which requires additional renewable energy requirements beyond 2015. the new legislation retains the 10% renewable energy portfolio requirement for years 2016 through 2018, increases the requirement to 12.5% for years 2019 through 2020, and increases the requirement to 15.0% for 2021. these regulations, as well as changes in the fuel markets and advances in technology, could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, and could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions. these regulations could also adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. in addition, our natural gas delivery systems and natural gas storage fields may generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair. fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane. co 2 is also a byproduct of natural gas consumption. as a result, future regulation of ghg emissions could increase the price of natural gas, restrict the use of natural gas, and adversely affect our ability to operate our natural gas facilities. a significant increase in the price of natural gas may increase rates for our natural gas customers, which could reduce natural gas demand. we may be negatively impacted by changes in federal income tax policy. we are impacted by united states federal income tax policy. both the new federal executive administration and the republicans in the house of representatives have made public statements in support of comprehensive tax reform, including significant changes to corporate income tax laws. these proposed changes include, among other things, a reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the immediate deductibility of 100% of capital expenditures, and the elimination of the interest expense deduction. we are currently unable to predict whether these reform discussions will result in any significant changes to existing tax laws, or if any such changes would have a cumulative positive or negative impact on us. however, it is possible that changes in the united states federal income tax laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. for example, any changes that eliminate the interest expense deduction, particularly to the extent applicable to existing indebtedness at our holding company and non-utility operations, could have a negative impact on our financial condition. in addition, the immediate deductibility of capital expenditures could have the effect of reducing growth in our regulated rate base, which could negatively impact our results of operations. our electric utilities could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. our electric utilities are subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject our electric utilities to higher operating costs. if our electric utilities were ever found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, the act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors, and the public. this 2016 form 10-k 25 wec energy group, inc. table of contents provision and other requirements of the act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wec energy group. as a result, stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. risks related to the operation of our business our operations are subject to risks arising from the reliability of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, natural gas infrastructure facilities, and other facilities, as well as the reliability of third-party transmission providers. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generation and natural gas and electric distribution facilities. the operation of these facilities involves many risks, including operator error and the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes. potential breakdown or failure may occur due to severe weather; catastrophic events (i.e., fires, earthquakes, explosions, tornadoes, floods, droughts, pandemic health events, etc.); significant changes in water levels in waterways; fuel supply or transportation disruptions; accidents; employee labor disputes; construction delays or cost overruns; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material, and/or labor; performance below expected levels; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; or cyber security intrusions. any of these events could lead to substantial financial losses. because our electric generation facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission facilities, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by events impacting their systems. unplanned outages at our power plants may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. insurance, warranties, performance guarantees, or recovery through the regulatory process may not cover any or all of these lost revenues or increased expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to various conditions that can result in fluctuations in energy sales to customers, including customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas, varying weather conditions, and energy conservation efforts. our results of operations and cash flows are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas, which can vary greatly based upon: fluctuations in customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas. customer growth and energy use can be negatively impacted by population declines as well as economic factors in our service territories, including job losses, decreases in income, and business closings. our electric and natural gas utilities are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products. these risks could directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas as well as the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. we could also be exposed to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills. weather conditions . demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, milder temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season may result in lower revenues and net income. our customers' continued focus on energy conservation and ability to meet their own energy needs . our customers' use of electricity and natural gas has decreased as a result of individual conservation efforts, including the use of more energy efficient technologies. these conservation efforts could continue. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income and increases in energy prices. conservation of energy can be influenced by certain federal and state programs that are intended to influence how consumers use energy. in addition, several states, including wisconsin and michigan, have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. as part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer growth and general economic conditions, weather, and customer energy conservation efforts, but risks still remain. any of these matters, as well as any regulatory delay in adjusting rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 2016 form 10-k 26 wec energy group, inc. table of contents we are actively involved with several significant capital projects, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. in addition, wbs has various capital projects that are primarily related to the development of software applications used to support our utilities. achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties, some of which we will have limited or no control over, that could adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, the ability to adhere to established budgets and time frames; the availability of labor or materials at estimated costs; the ability of contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable laws or regulations; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy. in addition, certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. if construction of commission-approved projects should materially and adversely deviate from the schedules, estimates, and projections on which the approval was based, our regulators may deem the additional capital costs as imprudent and disallow recovery of them through rates. to the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. advances in technology could make our electric generating facilities less competitive. research and development activities are ongoing for new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption. these technologies include renewable energy, customer-oriented generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. we generate power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive. it is possible that legislation or regulations could be adopted supporting the use of these technologies. there is also a risk that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station power production. if these technologies become cost competitive and achieve economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses. our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to, cyber security intrusions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information. we face the risk of terrorist attacks and cyber intrusions, both threatened and actual, against our generation facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, our information and technology systems, and network infrastructure, including that of third parties on which we rely, any of which could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, purchase, or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. we operate in an industry that requires the use of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which control an interconnected system of generation, distribution, and transmission systems shared with third parties. a successful physical or cyber security intrusion may occur despite our security measures or those that we require our vendors to take, which include compliance with reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards. successful cyber security intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage systems, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of service to customers. these intrusions may cause unplanned outages at our power plants, which may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. the risk of such intrusions may also increase our capital and operating costs as a result of having to implement increased security measures for protection of our information technology and infrastructure. we face on-going threats to our assets and technology systems. despite the implementation of strong security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error or physical or cyber security 2016 form 10-k 27 wec energy group, inc. table of contents intrusions. if our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, stockholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. security breaches may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons, and/or could cause us to become subject to significant litigation, costs, liability, fines, or penalties, any of which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations as well as our reputation with customers, stockholders and regulators, among others. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such intrusions or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. we may also need to obtain additional insurance coverage related to the threat of such intrusions. the costs of repairing damage to our facilities, protecting personally identifiable information, and notifying impacted persons, as well as related legal claims, may not be recoverable in rates, may exceed the insurance limits on our insurance policies, or, in some cases, may not be covered by insurance. transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. inherent in natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to us. the location of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. these activities may subject us to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any of our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for the payment of dividends on our common stock. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us depends on their earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, and general financial condition, as well as regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. in addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay amounts to us depends on any statutory, regulatory, and/or contractual restrictions and limitations applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain specified levels of debt or equity ratios, working capital, or other assets. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. we may fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations, including obligations under power purchase agreements, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, electricity, natural gas, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to 2016 form 10-k 28 wec energy group, inc. table of contents perform, we may be required to replace the underlying commitment at current market prices or we may be unable to meet all of our customers' electric and natural gas requirements unless or until alternative supply arrangements are put in place. in such event, we may incur losses, and our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected. we have entered into several power purchase agreements with non-affiliated companies, and continue to look for additional opportunities to enter into these agreements. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under the power purchase agreements. although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more purchasers could fail to perform their obligations under the power purchase agreements. if this were to occur, we would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers. to the extent there is any regulatory delay in adjusting rates, a customer default under a power purchase agreement could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to use tax credits, net operating losses, and/or charitable contribution carryforwards. we have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax liability in the past through tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available under the applicable tax codes. we have not fully used the allowed tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions in our previous tax filings. we may not be able to fully use the tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available as carryforwards if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit their use. in addition, any future disallowance of some or all of those tax credits, net operating losses, or charitable contribution carryforwards as a result of legislation or an adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions could materially affect our tax obligations and financial results. the acquisition of integrys may not achieve its anticipated results, and we may be unable to integrate operations as expected. the merger agreement was entered into with the expectation that the acquisition would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of the two companies can continue to be integrated in an efficient, effective, and timely manner. it is possible that the remaining integration efforts could take longer and be more costly than anticipated, and could result in the loss of valuable employees; the disruption of ongoing businesses, processes, and systems; or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies, and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction as and when expected. although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses of the two companies, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time, we may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all. failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. we have recorded goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect financial results. we assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur that would indicate a potential for impairment. if goodwill is deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur material non-cash charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to credit and capital markets to support our capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity, which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. 2016 form 10-k 29 wec energy group, inc. table of contents our or our subsidiaries' access to the credit and capital markets could be limited, or our or our subsidiaries' cost of capital significantly increased, due to any of the following risks and uncertainties: a rating downgrade; an economic downturn or uncertainty; prevailing market conditions and rules; concerns over foreign economic conditions; changes in tax policy; war or the threat of war; and the overall health and view of the utility and financial institution industries. if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, and could limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level. a downgrade in our or any of our subsidiaries' credit ratings could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact our and our subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, but not limited to, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. we or any of our subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of us, our utilities, or the utility industry has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. any downgrade by the rating agencies could: increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities; require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the pool of creditors; decrease funding sources by limiting our or our subsidiaries' access to the commercial paper market; limit the availability of adequate credit support for our subsidiaries' operations; and trigger collateral requirements in various contracts. fluctuating commodity prices could negatively impact our electric and natural gas utility operations. our operating and liquidity requirements are impacted by changes in the forward and current market prices of natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy credits, and ancillary services. our electric utilities burn natural gas in several of their electric generation plants and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. the cost of natural gas may increase because of disruptions in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution, international market conditions, the demand for natural gas, and the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility. for wisconsin retail electric customers, our utilities bear the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical 2% fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in their respective rate structures. our natural gas utilities receive dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs. changes in commodity prices could result in: higher working capital requirements, particularly related to natural gas inventory, accounts receivable, and cash collateral postings; reduced profitability to the extent that lower revenues, increased bad debt, and interest expense are not recovered through rates; higher rates charged to our customers, which could impact our competitive position; reduced demand for energy, which could impact revenues and operating expenses; and shutting down of generation facilities if the cost of generation exceeds the market price for electricity. 2016 form 10-k 30 wec energy group, inc. table of contents we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities and engage in opportunity sales. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to protect against an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory levels will be adequate. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, we cannot assure that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us, or we may experience operational problems or constraints that prevent us from taking delivery. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. furthermore, demand for coal can impact its availability and cost. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal-fired units and replace this lost generation through additional power purchases in the miso energy markets. there is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed, either of which could adversely affect our cash flows. our electric generation frequently exceeds our customer load. when this occurs, we generally sell the excess generation into the miso energy markets. if we do not have an adequate supply of coal for our coal-fired units or are unable to run our lower cost units, we may lose the ability to engage in these opportunity sales, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards to manage commodity price exposure. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of our utilities must be approved by the various state commissions, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. restructuring in the regulated energy industry and competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a negative impact on our business and revenues. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including michigan and illinois, have adopted retail choice. under michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. the law limits customer choice to 10% of our michigan retail load. the iron ore mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan is excluded from this cap. when a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. although illinois has adopted retail choice, there is currently little or no impact on the net income of our illinois utilities as they still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. it is uncertain whether retail choice might be implemented in wisconsin or minnesota. the ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. the miso energy markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes an lmp that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso energy markets, we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that schedules energy and ancillary services at the same time as part of the energy market, allowing for more efficient use of generation assets in the miso market. these market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the miso energy markets, and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. 2016 form 10-k 31 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers, and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter. technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. we currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. we may experience poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings due to changes in assumptions and market conditions. we have significant obligations related to pension and opeb plans. if we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors, including actual plan experience, changes made to the plans, and assumptions concerning the future. types of assumptions include earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and our required or voluntary contributions to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. in addition, medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. our funding requirements could be impacted by a decline in the market value of plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in demographics (including the number of retirements), or changes in life expectancy assumptions. we may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources market risks and other significant risks, as well as note 1(s), fair value measurements , note 1(t), derivative instruments , and note 16, guarantees , for information concerning potential market risks to which we are exposed. 2016 form 10-k 67 wec energy group, inc. table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors and those identified below: factors affecting utility operations such as catastrophic weather-related damage, environmental incidents, unplanned facility outages and repairs and maintenance, and electric transmission or natural gas pipeline system constraints; factors affecting the demand for electricity and natural gas, including political developments, unusual weather, changes in economic conditions, customer growth and declines, commodity prices, energy conservation efforts, and continued adoption of distributed generation by customers; the timing, resolution, and impact of rate cases and negotiations, including recovery of deferred and current costs and the ability to earn a reasonable return on investment, and other regulatory decisions impacting our regulated operations; the ability to obtain and retain customers, including wholesale customers, due to increased competition in our electric and natural gas markets from retail choice and alternative electric suppliers, and continued industry consolidation; the timely completion of capital projects within budgets, as well as the recovery of the related costs through rates; the impact of federal, state, and local legislative and regulatory changes, including changes in rate-setting policies or procedures, deregulation and restructuring of the electric and/or natural gas utility industries, transmission or distribution system operation, the approval process for new construction, reliability standards, pipeline integrity and safety standards, allocation of energy assistance, and energy efficiency mandates; the uncertainty surrounding the recently enacted tax legislation, including implementing regulations and irs interpretations, the amount to be returned to our ratepayers, and its impact, if any, on our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings; federal and state legislative and regulatory changes relating to the environment, including climate change and other environmental regulations impacting generation facilities and renewable energy standards, the enforcement of these laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation of permit conditions by regulatory agencies, and the recovery of associated remediation and compliance costs; factors affecting the implementation of our generation reshaping plan, including related regulatory decisions, the cost of materials, supplies, and labor, and the feasibility of competing projects; increased pressure on us by investors and other stakeholder groups to take more aggressive action to reduce future ghg emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases; the risks associated with changing commodity prices, particularly natural gas and electricity, and the availability of sources of fossil fuel, natural gas, purchased power, materials needed to operate environmental controls at our electric generating facilities, or water supply due to high demand, shortages, transportation problems, nonperformance by electric energy or natural gas suppliers under existing power purchase or natural gas supply contracts, or other developments; 2017 form 10-k 1 wec energy group, inc. table of contents changes in credit ratings, interest rates, and our ability to access the capital markets, caused by volatility in the global credit markets, our capitalization structure, and market perceptions of the utility industry, us, or any of our subsidiaries; costs and effects of litigation, administrative proceedings, investigations, settlements, claims, and inquiries; restrictions imposed by various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances, that could prevent us from paying our common stock dividends, taxes, and other expenses, and meeting our debt obligations; the risk of financial loss, including increases in bad debt expense, associated with the inability of our customers, counterparties, and affiliates to meet their obligations; changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; the direct or indirect effect on our business resulting from terrorist attacks and cyber security intrusions, as well as the threat of such incidents, including the failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, the associated costs to protect our utility assets, technology systems, and personal information, and the costs to notify affected persons to mitigate their information security concerns; the financial performance of atc and its corresponding contribution to our earnings, as well as the ability of atc and datc to obtain the required approvals for their transmission projects; the investment performance of our employee benefit plan assets, as well as unanticipated changes in related actuarial assumptions, which could impact future funding requirements; factors affecting the employee workforce, including loss of key personnel, internal restructuring, work stoppages, and collective bargaining agreements and negotiations with union employees; advances in technology that result in competitive disadvantages and create the potential for impairment of existing assets; the timing, costs, and anticipated benefits associated with the remaining integration efforts relating to the integrys acquisition; the risk associated with the values of goodwill and other intangible assets and their possible impairment; potential business strategies to acquire and dispose of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed timely or within budgets, and legislative or regulatory restrictions or caps on non-utility acquisitions, investments or projects, including the state of wisconsin's public utility holding company law; the timing and outcome of any audits, disputes, and other proceedings related to taxes; the ability to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, while both integrating and continuing to consolidate our enterprise systems; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and other considerations disclosed elsewhere herein and in other reports we file with the sec or in other publicly disseminated written documents. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 2017 form 10-k 2 wec energy group, inc. table of contents part i item 1. business a. introduction in this report, when we refer to "us," "we," "our," or "ours," we are referring to wec energy group, inc. the term "utility" refers to the regulated activities of the electric and natural gas utility companies, while the term "non-utility" refers to the activities of the electric and natural gas companies that are not regulated, as well as we power and bluewater. the term "nonregulated" refers to activities at wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, the pellc holding company, wispark, bostco, wisvest, wecc, wbs, pdl, and itf. in the first quarter of 2017, we sold substantially all of the remaining assets of bostco and in the second quarter of 2016, we sold certain assets of wisvest. the sale of itf was completed in the first quarter of 2016. references to "notes" are to the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. for more information about our business operations, including financial and geographic information about each reportable business segment, see note 19, segment information , and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations. wec energy group, inc. we were incorporated in the state of wisconsin in 1981 and became a diversified holding company in 1986. we maintain our principal executive offices in milwaukee, wisconsin. our wholly owned subsidiaries provide regulated natural gas and electricity, as well as nonregulated renewable energy. another subsidiary, itf, provided cng products and services prior to its sale in the first quarter of 2016. see note 3, dispositions, for more information on this sale. we have an approximately 60% equity interest in atc (an electric transmission company operating in illinois, michigan, minnesota, and wisconsin). at december 31, 2017 , we had six reportable segments, which are discussed below. for additional information about our reportable segments, see note 19, segment information . integrys acquisition on june 29, 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of integrys and changed our name to wec energy group, inc. for additional information on this acquisition, see note 2, acquisitions . available information our annual and periodic filings with the sec are available, free of charge, on our website, www.wecenergygroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may obtain materials we filed with or furnished to the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549. to obtain information on the operation of the public reference room, you may call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. you may also view information filed or furnished electronically with the sec at the sec's website at www.sec.gov . b. utility energy operations wisconsin segment the wisconsin segment includes the electric and natural gas utility operations of we, wg, wps, and umerc, which includes we's electric operations and wps's electric and natural gas operations in the state of michigan that were transferred to umerc effective january 1, 2017. in december 2016, both the mpsc and the pscw approved the operation of umerc as a stand-alone utility in the upper peninsula of michigan. see note 23, regulatory environment, for more information . umerc became operational effective january 1, 2017, and we and wps transferred customers and property, plant, and equipment as of that date. we transferred approximately 27,500 retail electric customers and 50 electric distribution-only customers to umerc, along with approximately 2,500 miles of electric distribution lines. wps transferred approximately 9,000 retail electric customers and 5,300 natural gas customers to umerc, along 2017 form 10-k 3 wec energy group, inc. table of contents with approximately 600 miles of electric distribution lines and approximately 100 miles of natural gas distribution mains. we and wps also transferred related electric distribution substations in the upper peninsula of michigan and all property rights for the distribution assets to umerc. the book value of net assets, including the related deferred income tax liabilities, transferred to umerc from we and wps as of january 1, 2017, was $61.1 million and $20.6 million, respectively. this transaction was a non-cash equity transfer recorded to additional paid in capital between entities under common control, and therefore, did not result in the recognition of a gain or loss. electric utility operations for the periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k, our electric utility operations included operations of we for all periods, operations for wps beginning july 1, 2015, due to the acquisition of integrys and its subsidiaries, and operations for umerc beginning january 1, 2017, due to the transfer of customers and assets located in the upper peninsula of michigan from we and wps. we, which is the largest electric utility in the state of wisconsin, generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in southeastern wisconsin (including the metropolitan milwaukee area), east central wisconsin, and northern wisconsin, and serves an iron ore mine customer, tilden, in the upper peninsula of michigan. wps generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in northeastern and central wisconsin. umerc supplies and distributes electric energy to customers located in the upper peninsula of michigan. umerc currently meets its market obligations through power purchase agreements with we and wps. umerc will begin to generate electricity when its new generation solution in the upper peninsula of michigan begins commercial operation, which is expected to occur in 2019. for more information on umerc's new generation solution, see the discussion below under the heading "natural gas-fired generation." operating revenues the following table shows electric utility operating revenues, including steam operations, for the past three years: year ended december 31 (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 (1) operating revenues residential $ 1,581.5 $ 1,620.7 $ 1,398.5 small commercial and industrial (2) 1,400.9 1,418.1 1,235.7 large commercial and industrial (2) 913.7 949.5 858.8 other 30.5 29.8 26.9 total retail revenues (2) 3,926.6 4,018.1 3,519.9 wholesale 233.4 231.2 181.4 resale 270.6 247.1 248.7 steam 23.3 27.2 41.0 other operating revenues (3) 105.1 104.5 77.5 total operating revenues (2) $ 4,559.0 $ 4,628.1 $ 4,068.5 (1) includes the operations of wps beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. (2) includes distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in michigan. (3) includes ssr revenues, amounts collected from (refunded to) customers for certain fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from costs included in rates, and other revenues, partially offset by revenues from tilden that are being deferred until a future rate proceeding. for more information, see the discussion below under the heading "large electric retail customers." 2017 form 10-k 4 wec energy group, inc. table of contents electric sales our electric energy deliveries included supply and distribution sales to retail and wholesale customers and distribution sales to those customers who switched to an alternative electric supplier. in 2017 , retail electric revenues accounted for 86.1% of total electric operating revenues, while wholesale and resale electric revenues accounted for 11.1% of total electric operating revenues. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations wisconsin segment contribution to operating income for information on mwh sales by customer class. our electric utilities are authorized to provide retail electric service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities, and in certain territories in the state of michigan pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities. our electric utilities buy and sell wholesale electric power by participating in the miso energy markets. the cost of our individual generation offered into the miso energy markets, compared to our competitors, affects how often our generating units are dispatched and whether we buy and sell power. for more information, see d. regulation. steam sales we has a steam utility that generates, distributes, and sells steam supplied by vapp to customers in metropolitan milwaukee, wisconsin. steam is used by customers for processing, space heating, domestic hot water, and humidification. annual sales of steam fluctuate from year to year based on system growth and variations in weather conditions. in april 2016, we sold the mcpp steam generation and distribution assets, located in wauwatosa, wisconsin. mcpp primarily provided steam to the milwaukee regional medical center hospitals and other campus buildings. see note 3, dispositions, for more information . electric sales forecast our combined service territories in wisconsin experienced slightly lower weather-normalized retail electric sales in 2017, driven by lower residential use per customer and the late 2016 closure of a major large commercial and industrial customer. these reductions were partially offset by modest growth in the number of residential customers. we currently forecast retail electric sales volumes and the associated peak demand, excluding the tilden mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan, to be flat or grow very slightly over the next five years, assuming normal weather. customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 electric customers end of year residential 1,431.4 1,421.7 1,414.1 small commercial and industrial 172.2 171.1 171.1 large commercial and industrial 0.9 0.9 1.0 other 3.0 3.0 3.1 total electric customers end of year 1,607.5 1,596.7 1,589.3 steam customers end of year 0.4 0.4 0.4 large electric retail customers we provide electric utility service to a diversified base of customers in industries such as metals manufacturing, paper, governmental, food products, other manufacturing, health services, retail, education, and mining. in february 2015, tilden, along with another affiliated iron ore mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan, returned as customers after choosing an alternative electric supplier in september 2013. for more information on alternative electric suppliers, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources industry restructuring. we entered into a contract with each of the mines to provide full requirements electric service through december 31, 2019. since 2015, we have been deferring, and expect to continue to defer, the revenue less costs of sales from the mine sales and will apply these amounts for the benefit of wisconsin retail electric customers in a future rate proceeding. 2017 form 10-k 5 wec energy group, inc. table of contents in 2016, one of the iron ore mines closed, and the related contract for full requirements electric service was terminated. in august 2016, we entered into a new agreement with tilden under which it will purchase electric power from umerc for 20 years for the remaining mine, contingent upon umerc's construction of natural gas-fired generation in the upper peninsula of michigan. tilden will continue to receive full requirements electric service from we under the existing contract until umerc's generation solution in the upper peninsula of michigan begins commercial operation, which is expected to occur in 2019. see note 23, regulatory environment, for more information , as well as the discussion under the heading "natural gas-fired generation" below. wholesale customers we provide wholesale electric service to various customers, including electric cooperatives, municipal joint action agencies, other investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities, and energy marketers. wholesale sales accounted for 7.6% , 7.4%, and 6.0% of total electric energy sales volumes during 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. wholesale revenues accounted for 5.1% , 5.0%, and 4.5% of total electric operating revenues during 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. resale the majority of our sales for resale are sold into an energy market operated by miso at market rates based on availability of our generation and market demand. resale sales accounted for 18.2% , 17.5%, and 20.9% of total electric energy sales volumes during 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. resale revenues accounted for 5.9% , 5.3%, and 6.1% of total electric operating revenues during 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. retail fuel costs are reduced by the amount that revenue exceeds the costs of sales derived from these opportunity sales. electric generation and supply mix our electric supply strategy is to provide our customers with energy from plants using a diverse fuel mix that is expected to maintain a stable, reliable, and affordable supply of electricity. through our participation in the miso energy markets, we supply a significant amount of electricity to our customers from power plants that we own. we supplement our internally generated power supply with long-term power purchase agreements, including the point beach power purchase agreement discussed under the heading "power purchase commitments," and through spot purchases in the miso energy markets. we also sell excess capacity into the miso energy markets when it is economical, which reduces net fuel costs by offsetting costs of purchased power. our rated capacity by fuel type as of december 31 is shown below. for more information on our electric generation facilities, see item 2. properties. rated capacity in mw (1) 2017 2016 2015 coal 4,935 4,933 4,955 natural gas: combined cycle 1,753 1,697 1,636 steam turbine (2) 314 320 305 natural gas/oil peaking units (3) 1,458 1,413 1,412 renewables (4) 273 273 269 total rated capacity 8,733 8,636 8,577 (1) rated capacity is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. we have summer peaking electric utilities, and amounts are based on expected capacity ratings for the following summer. the values were established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. (2) the natural gas steam turbine represents the rated capacity associated with vapp as well as weston unit 2. (3) the dual-fueled facilities generally burn oil only if natural gas is not available due to constraints on the natural gas pipeline and/or at the local natural gas distribution company that delivers natural gas to the plants. (4) includes hydroelectric, biomass, and wind generation. 2017 form 10-k 6 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the table below indicates our sources of electric energy supply as a percentage of sales for the three years ended december 31, as well as estimates for 2018 : estimate actual 2018 2017 2016 2015 company-owned generation units: coal 46.1 % 48.5 % 45.7 % 51.5 % natural gas: combined cycle 20.0 % 16.5 % 18.2 % 14.6 % steam turbine 0.5 % 0.8 % 0.9 % 1.2 % natural gas/oil peaking units 0.8 % 1.1 % 1.1 % 0.6 % renewables 3.9 % 4.1 % 3.9 % 3.4 % total company-owned generation units 71.3 % 71.0 % 69.8 % 71.3 % power purchase contracts: nuclear 17.9 % 17.7 % 17.5 % 20.5 % natural gas 2.1 % 1.3 % 1.7 % 1.4 % renewables 2.9 % 2.9 % 2.8 % 1.5 % other 1.7 % 1.6 % 2.1 % 3.5 % total power purchase contracts 24.6 % 23.5 % 24.1 % 26.9 % purchased power from miso 4.1 % 5.5 % 6.1 % 1.8 % total purchased power 28.7 % 29.0 % 30.2 % 28.7 % total electric utility supply 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % coal-fired generation our coal-fired generation consists of eight operating plants with a rated capacity of 4,935 mw as of december 31, 2017 . for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. as a result of our generation reshaping plan, we expect to retire approximately 1,800 mw of coal generation by 2020 with a goal of reducing co 2 emissions by approximately 40% below 2005 levels by 2030. for more information about future retirement of our plants, see note 5, property, plant, and equipment . natural gas-fired generation our natural gas-fired generation currently consists of nine operating plants, including peaking units, with a rated capacity of 3,325 mw as of december 31, 2017 . for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. in october 2017, the mpsc approved umerc's application for a certificate of necessity to begin construction of a long-term generation solution for electric reliability in the region. umerc will construct and operate approximately 180 mw of natural gas-fired generation located in the upper peninsula of michigan. the new generation is expected to achieve commercial operation in 2019. see note 23, regulatory environment, for more information . oil-fired generation fuel oil is used for combustion turbines at certain of our natural gas-fired plants as well as for ignition and flame stabilization at one of our coal-fired plants. our oil-fired generation had a rated capacity of 200 mw as of december 31, 2017 . we also have natural gas-fired peaking units with a rated capacity of 1,239 mw, which have the ability to burn oil if natural gas is not available due to delivery constraints. for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. renewable generation our electric utilities meet a portion of their electric generation supply with various renewable energy resources. this helps our electric utilities maintain compliance with renewable energy legislation in wisconsin and michigan. these renewable energy resources also help us maintain diversity in our generation portfolio, which effectively serves as a price hedge against future fuel costs, and will help mitigate the risk of potential unknown costs associated with any future carbon restrictions for electric generators. for more information about our renewable generation, see item 2. properties. 2017 form 10-k 7 wec energy group, inc. table of contents hydroelectric our hydroelectric generating system consists of 30 operating plants with a total installed capacity of 173 mw and a rated capacity of 151 mw as of december 31, 2017 . all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. wind we have six wind sites, consisting of 280 turbines, with an installed capacity of 447 mw and a rated capacity of 72 mw as of december 31, 2017 . in october 2017, wps, along with two other non-affiliated utilities, entered into an agreement to purchase the forward wind energy center, which consists of 86 wind turbines located in wisconsin with a total capacity of 129 mw. wps currently purchases 44.6% of the facility's energy output under a power purchase agreement, which is approximately 58 mw. the ferc approved the transaction in january 2018. the transaction remains subject to pscw approval and is expected to close in the spring of 2018. see note 2, acquisitions, for more information . biomass we have a biomass-fueled power plant at a rothschild, wisconsin paper mill site. wood waste and wood shavings are used to produce a rated capacity of approximately 50 mw of electric power as well as steam to support the paper mill's operations. fuel for the power plant is supplied by both the paper mill and through contracts with biomass suppliers. electric system reliability the pscw requires us to maintain a planning reserve margin above our projected annual peak demand forecast to help ensure reliability of electric service to our customers. these planning reserve requirements are consistent with the miso calculated planning reserve margin. in 2008, the pscw established a 14.5% reserve margin requirement for long-term planning (planning years two through ten). for short-term planning (planning year one), the pscw requires wisconsin utilities to follow the planning reserve margin established by miso. miso has a 15.8% installed capacity reserve margin requirement for the planning year from june 1, 2017 , through may 31, 2018 , and a 17.1% installed capacity reserve margin requirement for the planning year from june 1, 2018 , through may 31, 2019 . miso's short-term reserve margin requirements experience year-to-year fluctuations, primarily due to changes in the average forced outage rate of generation within the miso footprint. michigan recently passed legislation requiring all electric providers to demonstrate to the mpsc that they have enough resources to serve the anticipated needs of their customers for a minimum of four consecutive planning years beginning in the upcoming planning year june 1, 2018 , through may 31, 2019 . the mpsc has established future planning reserve margin requirements based on the same study conducted by miso that determines the short-term reserve margin requirements. in both of our wisconsin and michigan jurisdictions, we have adequate capacity through company-owned generation units and power purchase contracts to meet the miso calculated planning reserve margin during the current and first upcoming planning years. we also fully anticipate that we will have adequate capacity to meet the planning reserve margin requirements for future planning years in both jurisdictions. however, extremely hot weather, unexpected equipment failure, or unavailability across the 15-state miso footprint could require us to call upon load management procedures. load management procedures allow for the reduction of energy use through agreements with customers to directly shut off their equipment or through interruptible service, where customers agree to reduce their load in the case of an emergency interruption. fuel and purchased power costs our retail electric rates in wisconsin are established by the pscw and include base amounts for fuel and purchased power costs. the electric fuel rules set by the pscw allow us to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, under- or over-collections of actual fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from the costs included in the rates charged to customers. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers. for more information about the fuel rules, see d. regulation. 2017 form 10-k 8 wec energy group, inc. table of contents our average fuel and purchased power costs per mwh by fuel type were as follows for the years ended december 31: 2017 2016 2015 coal $ 23.05 $ 23.09 $ 25.57 natural gas combined cycle 22.65 18.79 17.66 natural gas/oil peaking units 53.91 45.08 56.99 biomass 118.76 103.24 168.84 purchased power 42.12 40.11 43.50 we and wps purchase coal under long-term contracts, which helps with price stability. in the past, coal and associated transportation services were exposed to volatility in pricing due to changing domestic and world-wide demand for coal and diesel fuel. to moderate the volatility, we and wps were both given pscw approval for a hedging program, which allows them to hedge up to 75% of their potential risks related to rail transportation fuel surcharge exposure. however, due to decreased volatility over the last two years, we suspended the fuel surcharge hedging program in 2017. we purchase natural gas for our plants on the spot market from natural gas marketers, utilities, and producers, and we arrange for transportation of the natural gas to our plants. we have firm and interruptible transportation, as well as balancing and storage agreements, intended to support our plants' variable usage. we and wps also have pscw-approved programs that allow them to hedge up to 75% of their estimated natural gas use for electric generation in order to help manage their natural gas price risk. our hedging programs are generally implemented on a 36-month forward-looking basis. the results of these programs are reflected in the average costs of natural gas and purchased power. coal supply we diversify the coal supply for our electric generating facilities and jointly-owned plants by purchasing coal from several mines in wyoming, as well as from various other states. for 2018 , approximately 83% of our total projected coal requirements of 10.8 million tons are contracted under fixed-price contracts. see note 21, commitments and contingencies, for more information on amounts of coal purchases and coal deliveries under contract. the annual tonnage amounts contracted for the next three years are as follows: (in thousands) annual tonnage 2018 8,932 2019 5,528 2020 2,573 coal deliveries all of our 2018 coal requirements are expected to be shipped by our owned or leased unit trains under existing transportation agreements. the unit trains transport the coal for electric generating facilities from mines in wyoming, pennsylvania, and montana. the coal is transported by train to our rail-served electric-generating facilities and to dock storage in superior, wisconsin, until needed by our lake vessel-served facility. additional small volume agreements may also be used to supplement the normal coal supply for our facilities. midcontinent independent system operator costs in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso developed and operates the miso energy markets, which include its bid-based energy market and ancillary services market. we are participants in the miso energy markets. for more information on miso, see d. regulation. power purchase commitments we enter into short and long-term power purchase commitments to meet a portion of our anticipated electric energy supply needs. our power purchase commitments with unaffiliated parties are 1,445 mw for 2018 and 1,387 mw per year for years 2019 through 2022, which exclude planning capacity purchases. these amounts include 1,033 mw per year related to a long-term power purchase 2017 form 10-k 9 wec energy group, inc. table of contents agreement for electricity generated by point beach. due to the planned retirement of generation resources, we have entered into purchase agreements to procure additional planning capacity in order to maintain our compliance with planning reserve requirements as established by the pscw, mpsc, and miso. other matters seasonality our electric utility sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions. we sell more electricity during the summer months because of the residential cooling load. we continue to upgrade our electric distribution system, including substations, transformers, and lines, to meet the demand of our customers. our generating plants performed as expected during the warmest periods of the summer, and all power purchase commitments under firm contract were received. during this period, we did not require public appeals for conservation, and it did not interrupt or curtail service to non-firm customers who participate in load management programs. in addition, wps did not require any public appeals for conservation, and it did not interrupt or curtail service to non-firm customers who participate in load management programs for capacity reasons. however, wps did have service curtailments for economic interruptions. economic interruptions are declared during times in which the price of electricity in the regional market significantly exceeds the cost of operating the company's peaking generation. during this time, interruptible customers can choose to continue using electricity at a price that exceeds the tariff rate. competition our electric utilities face competition from various entities and other forms of energy sources available to customers, including self-generation by large industrial customers and alternative energy sources. our electric utilities compete with other utilities for sales to municipalities and cooperatives as well as with other utilities and marketers for wholesale electric business. for more information on competition in our service territories, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources industry restructuring. environmental matters for information regarding environmental matters, especially as they relate to coal-fired generating facilities, see note 21, commitments and contingencies . natural gas utility operations for the periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k, our wisconsin natural gas utility operations include wg's and we's natural gas operations for all periods and wps's natural gas operations, including in the upper peninsula of michigan, beginning july 1, 2015, due to the acquisition of integrys and its subsidiaries. effective january 1, 2017, wps transferred its natural gas customers and natural gas distribution assets located in the upper peninsula of michigan to umerc, which is included in our wisconsin segment. more information about umerc is included at the beginning of the wisconsin segment section. we are authorized to provide retail natural gas distribution service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities. we also transport customer-owned natural gas. together our natural gas distribution utilities are the largest in wisconsin, and we operate throughout the state, including the city of milwaukee and surrounding areas, northeastern wisconsin, and in large areas of both central and western wisconsin. 2017 form 10-k 10 wec energy group, inc. table of contents natural gas utility operating statistics the following table shows certain natural gas utility operating statistics at our wisconsin segment for the past three years: year ended december 31 2017 2016 2015 (1) operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 809.3 $ 763.2 $ 696.2 commercial and industrial 395.5 355.3 332.8 total retail revenues 1,204.8 1,118.5 1,029.0 transport 72.6 69.7 62.8 other operating revenues (2) (7.2 ) (10.6 ) 30.8 total $ 1,270.2 $ 1,177.6 $ 1,122.6 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 1,322.9 1,311.0 1,299.7 commercial and industrial 125.1 124.3 123.4 transport 2.8 2.6 2.6 total customers 1,450.8 1,437.9 1,425.7 (1) includes the operations of wps beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. (2) includes amounts (refunded to) collected from customers for purchased gas adjustment costs. natural gas deliveries our gas therm deliveries include customer-owned transported natural gas. transported natural gas accounted for approximately 43.9% of the total volumes delivered during each of 2017 and 2016 , and 41.8% during 2015 . our peak daily send-out during 2017 was 23.9 million therms on december 27, 2017 . large natural gas customers we provide natural gas utility service to a diversified base of industrial customers who are largely within our electric service territory. major industries served include governmental, paper, education, health services, and restaurants. natural gas sales forecast our combined service territories in wisconsin experienced growth in weather-normalized natural gas deliveries (excluding natural gas deliveries for electric generation) in 2017 due to positive customer growth, an improving economy, and favorable natural gas prices. we currently forecast retail natural gas delivery volumes to grow at a rate between flat and 0.5% over the next five years, assuming normal weather. the forecast projects declining average usage per customer partially offsetting positive customer growth. natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we have been able to meet our contractual obligations with both our suppliers and our customers. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 21, commitments and contingencies . pipeline capacity and storage the interstate pipelines serving wisconsin originate in major natural gas producing areas of north america: the oklahoma and texas basins, western canada, and the rocky mountains. we have contracted for long-term firm capacity from a number of these sources. this strategy reflects management's belief that overall supply security is enhanced by geographic diversification of the supply portfolio. due to the daily and seasonal variations in natural gas usage in wisconsin, we have also contracted for substantial underground storage capacity, primarily in michigan. we target storage inventory levels at approximately 40% of forecasted winter demand; november through march is considered the winter season. storage capacity, along with our natural gas purchase contracts, enables 2017 form 10-k 11 wec energy group, inc. table of contents us to manage significant changes in daily demand and to optimize our overall natural gas supply and capacity costs. we generally inject natural gas into storage during the spring and summer months when demand is lower and withdraw it in the winter months. as a result, we can contract for less long-line pipeline capacity during periods of peak usage than would otherwise be necessary and can purchase natural gas on a more uniform daily basis from suppliers year-round. each of these capabilities enables us to reduce our overall costs. we hold daily transportation and storage capacity entitlements with interstate pipeline companies as well as other service providers under varied-length long-term contracts. to ensure a reliable supply of natural gas during peak winter conditions, we have liquefied natural gas and propane facilities located within our distribution system. these facilities are typically utilized during extreme demand conditions to ensure reliable supply to our customers. in june 2017, we completed the acquisition of bluewater. bluewater owns natural gas storage facilities in michigan that will provide approximately one-third of the current storage needs for our wisconsin natural gas utilities. see note 2, acquisitions, for more information on this transaction. term natural gas supply we have contracts for firm supplies with terms of 3 5 months with suppliers for natural gas acquired in the chicago, illinois market hub and in the producing areas discussed above. the pricing of the term contracts is based upon first of the month indices. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of natural gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. our wisconsin natural gas utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 32.0 million therms for the 2017 through 2018 heating season. secondary market transactions pipeline and storage capacity and natural gas supplies under contract can be resold in secondary markets. as local distribution companies, our wisconsin natural gas utilities must contract for capacity and supply sufficient to meet the firm peak-day demand of their customers. peak or near-peak demand days generally occur only a few times each year. the secondary markets facilitate higher utilization of contracted capacity and supply during those times when the full contracted capacity and supply are not needed by the utility, helping to mitigate the fixed costs associated with maintaining peak levels of capacity and natural gas supply. through pre-arranged agreements and day-to-day electronic bulletin board postings, interested parties can purchase this excess capacity and supply. the proceeds from these transactions are passed through to customers, subject to our approved gcrms. during 2017 , we continued to participate in the secondary markets. for information on the gcrms, see note 1(d), revenues and customer receivables. spot market natural gas supply we expect to continue to make natural gas purchases in the spot market as price and other circumstances dictate. we have supply relationships with a number of sellers from whom we purchase natural gas in the spot market. hedging natural gas supply prices we, wps, and wg have pscw approval to hedge up to 60% of planned winter demand and up to 15% of planned summer demand using a mix of nymex-based natural gas options and futures contracts. these approvals allow these companies to pass 100% of the hedging costs (premiums and brokerage fees) and proceeds (gains and losses) to customers through their respective gcrms. hedge targets (volumes) are provided annually to the pscw as part of each company's three-year natural gas supply plan and risk management filing. to the extent that opportunities develop and physical supply operating plans are supportive, we, wg, and wps also have pscw approval to utilize nymex-based natural gas derivatives to capture favorable forward-market price differentials. these approvals provide for 100% of the related proceeds to accrue to these companies' respective gcrms. 2017 form 10-k 12 wec energy group, inc. table of contents seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to some variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition competition in varying degrees exists between natural gas and other forms of energy available to consumers. a number of our large commercial and industrial customers are dual-fuel customers that are equipped to switch between natural gas and alternative fuels. we are allowed to offer lower-priced natural gas sales and transportation services to dual-fuel customers. under natural gas transportation agreements, customers purchase natural gas directly from natural gas marketers and arrange with interstate pipelines and us to have the natural gas transported to their facilities. we earn substantially the same operating income whether we sell and transport natural gas to customers or only transport their natural gas. our ability to maintain our share of the industrial dual-fuel market depends on our success and the success of third-party natural gas marketers in obtaining long-term and short-term supplies of natural gas at competitive prices compared to other sources and in arranging or facilitating competitively priced transportation service for those customers that desire to buy their own natural gas supplies. federal and state regulators continue to implement policies to bring more competition to the natural gas industry. while the natural gas utility distribution function is expected to remain a highly regulated, monopoly function, the sale of the natural gas commodity and related services are expected to remain subject to competition from third parties for large commercial and industrial customers. illinois segment our illinois segment includes the natural gas utility operations of pgl and nsg. pgl and nsg, both illinois corporations, began operations in 1855 and 1900, respectively. we acquired pgl and nsg as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. our customers are located in chicago and the northern suburbs of chicago. 2017 form 10-k 13 wec energy group, inc. table of contents illinois utilities operating statistics the following table shows certain illinois utility operating statistics since the acquisition of integrys. year ended december 31 2017 2016 2015 * operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 934.8 $ 839.2 $ 309.8 commercial and industrial 156.7 136.5 50.4 total retail revenues 1,091.5 975.7 360.2 transport 246.9 239.4 97.1 other operating revenues 17.1 27.1 46.1 total $ 1,355.5 $ 1,242.2 $ 503.4 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 854.3 846.8 838.2 commercial and industrial 47.8 47.1 46.2 transport 103.9 109.5 107.8 total customers 1,006.0 1,003.4 992.2 * includes the operations of pgl and nsg beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, peak-shaving facilities, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 21, commitments and contingencies . we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having multiple pipelines that serve our natural gas service territory benefits our customers by improving reliability, providing access to a diverse supply of natural gas, and fostering competition among these service providers. these benefits can lead to favorable conditions for our illinois utilities when negotiating new agreements for transportation and storage services. our illinois utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. they hedge between 25% and 50% of natural gas purchases, with a target of 37.5%. we own a 38.3 bcf storage field (manlove field in central illinois) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. storage allows us to manage significant changes in daily natural gas demand and to purchase steady levels of natural gas on a year-round basis, which provides a hedge against supply cost volatility. we also own a natural gas pipeline system that connects manlove field to chicago and eight major interstate pipelines. these assets are directed primarily to serving rate-regulated retail customers and are included in our regulatory rate base. we also use a portion of these company-owned storage and pipeline assets as a natural gas hub, which consists of providing transportation and storage services in interstate commerce to our wholesale customers. customers deliver natural gas to us for storage through an injection into the storage reservoir, and we return the natural gas to the customers under an agreed schedule through a withdrawal from the storage reservoir. title to the natural gas does not transfer to us. we recognize service fees associated with the natural gas hub services provided to wholesale customers. these service fees reduce the cost of natural gas and services charged to retail customers in rates. we had adequate capacity to meet all firm natural gas demand obligations during 2017 and expect to have adequate capacity to meet all firm demand obligations during 2018. our illinois utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 24.5 million therms for the 2017 through 2018 heating season. 2017 form 10-k 14 wec energy group, inc. table of contents gas system modernization program pgl is continuing work on the smp, a project that began in 2011 under which pgl is replacing approximately 2,000 miles of chicago's aging natural gas pipeline infrastructure. pgl currently recovers these costs through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an icc approved qip rider, which is in effect through 2023. for information on regulatory proceedings related to the smp, see note 23, regulatory environment . seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our illinois utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition although our illinois utilities' rates are regulated by the icc, we still face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. absent extraordinary circumstances, potential competitors are not allowed to construct competing natural gas distribution systems in our service territory due to a judicial doctrine known as the "first in the field." in addition, we believe it would be impractical to construct competing duplicate distribution facilities due to the high cost of installation. since 2002, all our illinois utilities' natural gas customers have had the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. as a result, we offer natural gas transportation service to enable customers to directly manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution system to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. an interstate pipeline may seek to provide transportation service directly to end users, which would bypass our natural gas transportation service. however, we have a bypass rate approved by the icc, which allows us to negotiate rates with customers that are potential bypass candidates to help ensure that such customers use our transportation service. other states segment our other states segment includes the natural gas utility operations of merc and mgu. we acquired the natural gas distribution operations of merc and mgu, located in minnesota and michigan, respectively, on june 29, 2015, with the acquisition of integrys. merc serves customers in various cities and communities throughout minnesota, and mgu serves customers in southern and western michigan. 2017 form 10-k 15 wec energy group, inc. table of contents other states utilities operating statistics the following table shows certain other states utility operating statistics since the acquisition of integrys. year ended december 31 2017 2016 2015 * operating revenues (in millions) residential $ 220.2 $ 209.3 $ 67.6 commercial and industrial 123.9 110.7 38.8 total retail revenues 344.1 320.0 106.4 transport 31.4 31.7 11.5 other operating revenues 35.7 24.8 31.4 total $ 411.2 $ 376.5 $ 149.3 customers end of year (in thousands) residential 353.0 348.1 345.8 commercial and industrial 34.5 34.1 33.8 transport 24.2 24.8 23.0 total customers 411.7 407.0 402.6 * includes the operations of merc and mgu beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 21, commitments and contingencies . we own a storage field (partello in michigan) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. storage allows us to manage significant changes in daily natural gas demand and to purchase steady levels of natural gas on a year-round basis, which provides a hedge against supply cost volatility. we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having multiple pipelines that serve our natural gas service territory benefits our customers by improving reliability, providing access to a diverse supply of natural gas, and fostering competition among these service providers. these benefits can lead to favorable conditions for our other states utilities when negotiating new agreements for transportation and storage services. our other states utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. merc hedges up to 30% of planned winter demand using nymex financial instruments. mgu hedges up to 20% of its planned annual purchases using nymex financial instruments. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. forecasted design peak-day throughput for our other states utilities segment is 8.6 million therms for the 2017 through 2018 heating season. seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our other states utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a 2017 form 10-k 16 wec energy group, inc. table of contents portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition although our other states utilities' rates are regulated by the mpuc and mpsc, we still face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. natural gas utilities in the state of minnesota do not have exclusive franchise service territories and, as a matter of law and policy, natural gas utilities may compete for new customers. however, natural gas utilities have customarily avoided competing for existing customers of other utilities, as there would be duplicative utility facilities and/or increased costs to customers. if this approach were to change, it could lead to a greater level of utility to utility competition for customers. many large commercial and industrial customers have the ability to switch between natural gas and alternative fuels. in addition, merc commercial and industrial customers and all mgu customers have the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. we offer natural gas transportation service and also offer interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution systems to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change. electric transmission segment atc is a regional transmission company that owns, maintains, monitors, and operates electric transmission systems in wisconsin, michigan, illinois, and minnesota. atc is expected to provide comparable service to all customers, including we, wps, and umerc, and to support effective competition in energy markets without favoring any market participant. atc is regulated by the ferc for all rate terms and conditions of service and is a transmission-owning member of miso. miso maintains operational control of atc's transmission system, and we and wps are non-transmission owning members and customers of miso. as of december 31, 2017 , our ownership interest in atc was approximately 60%. in addition, we own approximately 75% of atc holdco, a separate entity formed in december 2016 to invest in transmission-related projects outside of atc's traditional footprint. as of december 31, 2017, we had an investment of $37.6 million in atc holdco. in april 2011, atc and duke energy announced the creation of a joint venture, datc, that seeks opportunities to acquire, build, own, and operate new electric transmission infrastructure in north america to address increasing demand for affordable, reliable transmission capacity. in april 2013, datc acquired a 72% interest in california's path 15 transmission rights. datc continues to evaluate new projects and opportunities, along with participating in the competitive bidding process on projects it considers viable. these projects are located in the service territories of several different rtos around the country. see note 18, investment in transmission affiliates, for more information . atc is currently named as one of several parties to a complaint filed with the ferc requesting a reduction in the base roe used by miso transmission owners. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources other matters american transmission company allowed return on equity complaints, for more information. c. non-utility operations non-utility energy infrastructure segment the non-utility energy infrastructure segment includes the operations of we power and of bluewater following its acquisition in june 2017. see note 2, acquisitions , for more information on bluewater. we power, through wholly owned subsidiaries, designed and built approximately 2,450 mw of generation in wisconsin. this generation is made up of capacity from the ergs units, er 1 and er 2, which were placed in service in february 2010 and 2017 form 10-k 17 wec energy group, inc. table of contents january 2011, respectively, and the pwgs units, pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, which were placed in service in july 2005 and may 2008, respectively. two unaffiliated entities collectively own approximately 17%, or approximately 211 mw, of er 1 and er 2. we power's share of the ergs units and both pwgs units are being leased to we under long-term leases (the ergs units have 30-year leases and the pwgs units have 25-year leases), and are positioned to provide a significant portion of our future generation needs. because of the significant investment necessary to construct these generating units, we constructed the plants under wisconsin's leased generation law, which allows a non-utility affiliate to construct an electric generating facility and lease it to the public utility. the law allows a public utility that has entered into a lease approved by the pscw to recover fully in its retail electric rates that portion of any payments under the lease that the pscw has allocated to the public utility's wisconsin retail electric service, and all other costs that are prudently incurred in the public utility's operation and maintenance of the electric generating facility allocated to the utility's wisconsin retail electric service. in addition, the pscw may not modify or terminate a lease it has approved under the leased generation law except as specifically provided in the lease or the pscw's order approving the lease. this law effectively created regulatory certainty in light of the significant investment being made to construct the units. all four units were constructed under leases approved by the pscw. we are recovering our costs of these units, including subsequent capital additions, through lease payments that are billed from we power to we and then recovered in we's rates as authorized by the pscw, the mpsc, and the ferc. under the lease terms, our return is calculated using a 12.7% roe and the equity ratio is assumed to be 55% for the ergs units and 53% for the pwgs units. bluewater, located in southeast michigan, provides natural gas storage and hub services to we, wg, and wps. this gas storage can provide approximately one-third of the current storage needs for the we, wg, and wps natural gas distribution service customers. we, wg, and wps have entered into long-term service agreements for natural gas storage with bluewater. corporate and other segment the corporate and other segment includes the operations of the wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, and the pellc holding company, as well as the operations of wispark, bostco, wisvest (prior to the sale of its assets in the first quarter of 2016), wecc, wbs, pdl, and itf (prior to the sale of this business in the first quarter of 2016). see note 3, dispositions, for more information on the sale of wisvest's assets and itf. wispark develops and invests in real estate. wispark had $45.9 million in real estate holdings at december 31, 2017. wispark has developed several business parks and other commercial real estate projects, primarily in southeastern wisconsin. bostco was originally formed to develop and invest in real estate. in march 2017, we sold the remaining real estate holdings of bostco located in downtown milwaukee, wisconsin, which included retail, office, and residential space. see note 3, dispositions, for more information. bostco no longer has significant operations. wisvest was originally formed to develop, own, and operate electric generating facilities and to invest in other energy-related entities. however, wisvest discontinued its development activity several years ago. in april 2016, we sold the chilled water generation and distribution assets of wisvest, which provided chilled water services to the milwaukee regional medical center. wisvest no longer has significant operations. wecc was originally formed to invest in non-utility projects, such as low income housing developments. however, due to a focus on our regulated utility business, wecc sold many of its non-utility investments and no longer has significant operations. wbs is a wholly owned centralized service company that provides administrative and general support services to our regulated entities. wbs also provides certain administrative and support services to our nonregulated entities. pdl owns distributed renewable solar projects. during 2016, pdl sold its natural gas-fired cogeneration facility and its landfill gas facility. these facilities were not significant to our operations. pdl's solar facilities rely on solar irradiance, a renewable energy resource. there is no market price risk associated with the fuel supply of these solar projects. however, production at these facilities can be intermittent due to the variability of solar irradiance. 2017 form 10-k 18 wec energy group, inc. table of contents d. regulation we are a holding company and are subject to the requirements of the public utility holding company act of 2005 (puhca 2005). we also have various subsidiaries that meet the definition of a holding company under puhca 2005 and are also subject to its requirements. pursuant to the non-utility asset cap provisions of wisconsin's public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. however, among other items, the law exempts energy-related assets, including the generating plants constructed by we power, from being counted against the asset cap provided that they are employed in qualifying businesses. we report to the pscw annually our compliance with this law and provide supporting documentation to show that our non-utility assets are below the non-utility asset cap. regulated utility operations in addition to the specific regulations noted above and below, our utilities are also subject to regulations, where applicable, of the epa, the wdnr, the mdeq, the michigan department of natural resources, the illinois environmental protection agency, the united states army corps of engineers, the minnesota department of natural resources, and the minnesota pollution control agency. rates our utilities' rates were regulated by the various commissions shown in the table below during 2017 . these commissions have general supervisory and regulatory powers over public utilities in their respective jurisdictions. regulated rates regulatory commission we retail electric, natural gas, and steam pscw retail electric mpsc wholesale power ferc wps retail electric and natural gas pscw wholesale power ferc wg retail natural gas pscw umerc retail electric and natural gas mpsc wholesale power ferc pgl retail natural gas icc nsg retail natural gas icc merc retail natural gas mpuc mgu retail natural gas mpsc embedded within our electric utilities' rates is an amount to recover fuel and purchased power costs. the wisconsin retail fuel rules require a utility to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, any under-collection or over-collection of fuel and purchased power costs that are outside of the utility's symmetrical fuel cost tolerance, which the pscw typically sets at plus or minus 2% of the utility's approved fuel and purchased power cost plan. the deferred fuel and purchased power costs are subject to an excess revenues test. if the utility's roe in a given year exceeds the roe authorized by the pscw, the recovery of under-collected fuel and purchased power costs would be reduced by the amount by which the utility's return exceeds the authorized amount. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers and our wholesale electric customers. 2017 form 10-k 19 wec energy group, inc. table of contents our natural gas utilities operate under gcrms as approved by their respective state regulator. generally, the gcrms allow for a dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs. for a summary of the significant mechanisms our utility subsidiaries had in place in 2017 that allowed them to recover or refund changes in prudently incurred costs from rate case-approved amounts, see note 1(d), revenues and customer receivables . in may 2015, the pscw approved the acquisition of integrys on the condition that we and wg each be subject to an earnings sharing mechanism for three years beginning january 1, 2016 . see note 2, acquisitions, for more information on these earnings sharing mechanisms. for information on how rates are set for our regulated entities, see note 23, regulatory environment . orders from our respective regulators can be viewed at the following websites: regulatory commission website pscw https://psc.wi.gov/ icc https://www.icc.illinois.gov/ mpsc http://www.michigan.gov/mpsc/ mpuc http://mn.gov/puc/ ferc http://www.ferc.gov/ the material and information contained on these websites are not intended to be a part of, nor are they incorporated by reference into, this annual report on form 10-k. the following table compares our utility operating revenues by regulatory jurisdiction for each of the three years ended december 31: 2017 2016 2015 (in millions) amount percent amount percent amount percent electric * wisconsin $ 3,909.1 85.7 % $ 3,974.8 85.9 % $ 3,466.3 85.2 % michigan 145.9 3.2 % 175.0 3.8 % 173.1 4.3 % ferc wholesale 504.0 11.1 % 478.3 10.3 % 429.1 10.5 % total 4,559.0 100.0 % 4,628.1 100.0 % 4,068.5 100.0 % natural gas * wisconsin 1,266.4 41.7 % 1,174.2 42.0 % 1,121.3 63.2 % illinois 1,355.5 44.6 % 1,242.2 44.4 % 503.4 28.4 % minnesota 272.6 9.0 % 249.4 8.9 % 98.3 5.5 % michigan 142.4 4.7 % 130.5 4.7 % 52.3 2.9 % total 3,036.9 100.0 % 2,796.3 100.0 % 1,775.3 100.0 % total utility operating revenues * $ 7,595.9 $ 7,424.4 $ 5,843.8 * includes the operations of wps, pgl, nsg, merc, and mgu beginning july 1, 2015, as a result of the acquisition of integrys on june 29, 2015. electric transmission, capacity, and energy markets in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso developed bid-based energy markets, which were implemented on april 1, 2005. in january 2009, miso enhanced the energy market by including an ancillary services market. in the miso ancillary services market, we buy/sell regulation and contingency reserves from/to the market. the miso ancillary services market has been able to reduce overall ancillary services costs in the miso footprint, and has enabled miso to assume significant balancing area responsibilities such as frequency control and disturbance control. in miso, base transmission costs are currently being paid by load-serving entities located in the service territories of each miso transmission owner. the ferc has previously confirmed the use of the current transmission cost allocation methodology. certain additional costs for new transmission projects are allocated throughout the miso footprint. 2017 form 10-k 20 wec energy group, inc. table of contents as part of miso, a market-based platform was developed for valuing transmission congestion premised upon the lmp system that has been implemented in certain northeastern and mid-atlantic states. the lmp system includes the ability to hedge transmission congestion costs through arrs and ftrs. arrs are allocated to market participants by miso, and ftrs are purchased through auctions. a new allocation and auction were completed for the period of june 1, 2017, through may 31, 2018. the resulting arr valuation and the secured ftrs are expected to mitigate our transmission congestion risk for that period. miso has instituted an annual zonal resource adequacy requirement to ensure there is sufficient generation capacity to serve the miso market. to meet this requirement, capacity resources can be acquired through miso's annual capacity auction, bilateral contracts for capacity, or provided from generating or demand response resources. our capacity requirements during the 2017 planning year were fulfilled using our own capacity resources. other electric regulations our electric utilities are subject to the federal power act and the corresponding regulations developed by certain federal agencies. the energy policy act amended the federal power act in 2005 to, among other things, make electric utility industry consolidation more feasible, authorize the ferc to review proposed mergers and the acquisition of generation facilities, change the ferc regulatory scheme applicable to qualifying cogeneration facilities, and modify certain other aspects of energy regulations and federal tax policies applicable to us. additionally, the energy policy act created an electric reliability organization to be overseen by the ferc, which established mandatory electric reliability standards and has the authority to levy monetary sanctions for failure to comply with these standards. we and wps are subject to act 141 in wisconsin, and we and umerc are subject to public acts 295 and 342 in michigan, which contain certain minimum requirements for renewable energy generation. all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. other natural gas regulations almost all of the natural gas we distribute is transported to our distribution systems by interstate pipelines. the pipelines' transportation and storage services, including pgl's natural gas hub, are regulated by the ferc under the natural gas act and the natural gas policy act of 1978. in addition, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration and the state commissions are responsible for monitoring and enforcing requirements governing our natural gas utilities' safety compliance programs for our pipelines under the united states department of transportation regulations. these regulations include 49 code of federal regulations (cfr) part 191 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline; annual reports, incident reports, and safety-related condition reports), 49 cfr part 192 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards), and 49 cfr part 195 (transportation of hazardous liquids by pipeline). we are required to provide natural gas service and grant credit (with applicable deposit requirements) to customers within our service territories. we are generally not allowed to discontinue natural gas service during winter moratorium months to residential heating customers who do not pay their bills. federal and certain state governments have programs that provide for a limited amount of funding for assistance to low-income customers of our utilities. non-utility energy infrastructure operations the generation facilities constructed by wholly owned subsidiaries of we power are being leased on a long-term basis to we. environmental permits necessary for operating the facilities are the responsibility of the operating entity, we. we power received determinations from the ferc that upon the transfer of the facilities by lease to we, we power's subsidiaries would not be deemed public utilities under the federal power act and thus would not be subject to the ferc's jurisdiction. bluewater is regulated by the ferc under the natural gas act and the natural gas policy act of 1978. in addition, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration is responsible for monitoring and enforcing requirements governing bluewater's safety compliance programs for its pipelines under the united states department of transportation regulations. these regulations include 49 cfr parts 191, 192, and 195. given that bluewater is required to route some of its natural gas through canada, applicable reporting and licensing with the united states department of energy and the canadian national energy board are also required, along with routine reporting related to imports and exports. 2017 form 10-k 21 wec energy group, inc. table of contents e. environmental compliance our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation of ghg emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, or wastewater discharges, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs. anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital requirements. for a discussion of matters related to manufactured gas plant sites and air and water quality, see note 21, commitments and contingencies . f. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we had the following number of employees: total employees we 2,945 wps 1,224 wg 420 pgl 1,510 nsg 163 merc 224 mgu 159 wbs 1,484 total employees 8,129 2017 form 10-k 22 wec energy group, inc. table of contents as of december 31, 2017 , we had employees represented under labor agreements with the following bargaining units: number of employees expiration date of current labor agreement we local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 1,627 august 15, 2020 local 420 of international union of operating engineers, afl-cio 443 september 30, 2021 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america, afl-cio 124 october 31, 2021 local 510 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 89 october 31, 2020 total we 2,283 wps local 420 of international union of operating engineers, afl-cio 881 april 16, 2021 wg local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 86 august 15, 2020 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america, afl-cio 214 october 31, 2021 total wg 300 pgl local 18007 of utility workers union of america, afl-cio (1) 934 april 30, 2018 local 18007(c) of utility workers union of america, afl-cio 91 july 31, 2018 total pgl 1,025 nsg local 2285 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 119 june 30, 2019 merc (2) local 31 of international brotherhood of electrical workers, afl-cio 44 may 31, 2020 mgu local 12295 of united steelworkers of america, afl-cio-clc 77 january 15, 2020 local 417 of utility workers union of america, afl-cio 29 february 15, 2019 total mgu 106 total represented employees 4,758 (1) in january 2018, pgl and the gas workers union executive committee of local 18007 negotiated a five year agreement to be effective may 1, 2018. (2) in january 2018, the international union of operating engineers, local 49, was certified and includes three employees. merc is in the process of preparing for negotiations. 2017 form 10-k 23 wec energy group, inc. table of contents item 1a. risk factors we are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the sec from time to time, when making an investment decision. risks related to legislation and regulation our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local, and federal governmental regulation, including regulation by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. these regulations significantly influence our operating environment, may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers, and cause us to incur substantial compliance costs. changes in regulations, interpretations of regulations, or the imposition of new regulations could also significantly impact us, including requiring us to change our business operations. many aspects of our operations are regulated and impacted by government regulation, including, but not limited to: the rates we charge our retail electric, natural gas, and steam customers; the authorized rates of return of our utilities; construction and operation of electric generating facilities and electric and natural gas distribution systems and the ability to recover such costs; decommissioning generating facilities and the ability to recover the related costs and continuing to recover the return on the carrying value of these facilities; wholesale power service practices; electric reliability requirements and accounting; participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market; standards of service; issuance of securities; short-term debt obligations; transactions with affiliates; and billing practices. failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to customer refunds, penalties, and other payments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the rates, including adjustments determined under riders, we are allowed to charge our customers for retail and wholesale services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. rate regulation provides us an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent on regulatory action, and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. in addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable roe. we defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. if recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses for our existing operations, have complied with all of their associated terms, and that our businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws. these permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. in addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal, state, and local agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. we cannot predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies. if we are unable to recover costs of complying with regulations or other associated costs in customer rates in a timely manner, or if we are unable to obtain, renew, or comply with these governmental permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, or licenses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we face significant costs to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. our operations are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions (including co 2, methane, mercury, so 2 , and nox), water quality, wastewater discharges, and management of hazardous, toxic, and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant costs to comply with these environmental requirements, including costs associated with the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at our facilities. in addition, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. 2017 form 10-k 24 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the epa adopted and implemented (or is in the process of implementing) regulations governing the emission of nox, so 2 , fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the caa through the naaqs, the mercury and air toxics standards rule, the cpp, the csapr, and other air quality regulations. in addition, the epa finalized regulations under the clean water act that govern cooling water intake structures at our power plants and revised the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants. the epa and the united states army corps of engineers (army corps) have also adopted a final rule that would expand traditional federal jurisdiction over navigable waters and related wetlands for permitting and other regulatory matters; however, this rule has been stayed, and the epa and the army corps have proposed rescinding it. we continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. in addition, as a result of the new federal executive administration taking office in january 2017 and the actions it has taken to date, as well as other factors, there is uncertainty as to what capital expenditures or additional costs may ultimately be required to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level that could result in significant additional expenditures for our generation units or distribution systems, including, without limitation, costs to further limit ghg emissions from our operations; operating restrictions on our facilities; and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and compliance with rules regulating our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. any such regulation may also create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could affect the availability and/or cost of fossil fuels. as a result, certain of our coal-fired electric generating facilities may become uneconomical to maintain and operate, which could result in some of these units being retired or converted to an alternative type of fuel. for example, we expect to retire approximately 1,800 mw of coal generation by 2020, including pleasant prairie power plant, pipp, pulliam power plant, and the jointly-owned edgewater unit 4 generating unit. if other generation facility owners in the midwest retire a significant number of older coal-fired generation facilities, a potential reduction in the region's capacity reserve margin below acceptable risk levels may result. this could impair the reliability of the grid in the midwest, particularly during peak demand periods. a reduction in available future capacity could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers' needs. our electric and natural gas utilities are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental impacts at certain of our current and former facilities and at third-party owned sites. we accrue liabilities and defer costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with our former manufactured gas plant sites. these costs include all costs incurred to date that we expect to recover, management's best estimates of future costs for investigation and remediation, related legal expenses, and are net of amounts recovered by or that may be recovered from insurance or other third parties. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future, the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, a change in conditions or discovery of additional contamination, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate or could vary from the amounts currently accrued. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury, property damage, and other claims for damages alleged to have been caused by environmental impacts and alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. in addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of facilities that we previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during, or after the time we owned or operated these facilities. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. federal, state, regional, and international authorities have undertaken efforts to limit ghg emissions. in 2015, the epa issued a final rule regulating ghg emissions from existing generating units, referred to as the cpp, a proposed federal plan and model trading rules 2017 form 10-k 25 wec energy group, inc. table of contents as alternatives or guides to state compliance plans, and final performance standards for modified and reconstructed generating units and new fossil-fueled power plants. with the january 2017 change in the federal executive administration, the legal and regulatory future of federal ghg regulations, including the cpp, faces increased uncertainty. we are continuing to analyze the ghg emission profile of our electric generation resources and to work with other stakeholders to determine the potential impacts to our operations of the cpp, any successor rule, and federal ghg regulations in general. in october 2015, numerous states (including wisconsin and michigan) and other parties, filed lawsuits challenging the final rule, including a request to stay the implementation of the final rule pending the outcome of these legal challenges. the d.c. circuit court of appeals denied the stay request, but in february 2016, the supreme court stayed the effectiveness of the cpp until disposition of the litigation in the d.c. circuit court of appeals and to the extent that further appellate review is sought, at the supreme court. the d.c. circuit court of appeals heard one case in september 2016, and the other case is still pending. in april 2017, pursuant to motions made by the epa, the d.c. circuit court of appeals ordered the cases to be held in abeyance. supplemental briefs were provided addressing whether the cases should be remanded to the epa rather than held in abeyance. the epa argued that the cases should continue to be held in abeyance pending the conclusion of the epa's review of the cpp and any resulting rulemaking. in march 2017, president trump issued an executive order that, among other things, specifically directs the epa to review, and if appropriate, initiate proceedings to suspend, revise, or rescind the cpp and related ghg regulations for new, reconstructed, or modified fossil-fueled power plants. as a result of this order and related epa review, as well as the ongoing legal proceedings, the timelines for the ghg emission reduction goals and all other aspects of the cpp are uncertain. in april 2017, the epa withdrew the proposed rule for a federal plan and model trading rules that were published in october 2015 for use in developing state plans to implement the cpp or for use in states where a plan is not submitted or approved. in october 2017, the epa issued a proposed rulemaking to repeal the cpp. in december 2017, the epa issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to solicit input on whether it is appropriate to replace the cpp. in addition, the governor of wisconsin issued an executive order in february 2016, which prohibits state agencies, departments, boards, commissions, or other state entities from developing or promoting the development of a state plan to implement the cpp. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with the cpp or other federal regulations or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. the cpp and any other related regulations that may be adopted in the future, at either the federal or state level, may cause our environmental compliance spending to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. in december 2016, michigan enacted act 342, which retains the 10% renewable energy portfolio requirement for years 2016 through 2018, increases the requirement to 12.5% for years 2019 through 2020, and increases the requirement to 15.0% for 2021. these regulations, as well as changes in the fuel markets and advances in technology, could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, may impact how we operate our existing fossil-fueled power plants and biomass facility, and could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions in the future. these regulations could also adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. in addition, our natural gas delivery systems and natural gas storage fields may generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair. fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane. co 2 is also a byproduct of natural gas consumption. as a result, future regulation of ghg emissions could increase the price of natural gas, restrict the use of natural gas, and adversely affect our ability to operate our natural gas facilities. a significant increase in the price of natural gas may increase rates for our natural gas customers, which could reduce natural gas demand. we also continue to monitor efforts by investors and other stakeholders to increase pressure on us and others to take more aggressive action to reduce future ghg emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases to less than two degrees celsius. these efforts could impact how we operate our electric generating units and natural gas facilities and lead to increased competition and regulation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. recent changes in federal income tax policy may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings. recently enacted united states federal income tax legislation significantly changed the united states internal revenue code, including taxation of united states corporations, by, among other things, reducing the federal corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, and altering the expensing of capital expenditures. the tax legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the treasury department and the irs, as well as state income tax authorities, and the tax legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the tax legislation. in addition, the regulatory treatment of the impacts of the tax legislation will be subject to the discretion of the ferc and state public utility commissions. state and local taxing authorities are in the early stages 2017 form 10-k 26 wec energy group, inc. table of contents of evaluating the impact of federal income tax reform, and any changes on the state or local level could lessen or increase the impacts of the tax legislation. although it is unclear when or how capital markets, credit rating agencies, the ferc, or state public utility commissions may ultimately respond to the tax legislation, we do expect that certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, could be negatively impacted as a result of certain limitations on tax deductions and an anticipated decrease in required income tax reimbursement payments to us from our utility subsidiaries. it is uncertain how credit rating agencies will treat the impacts of the tax legislation on their credit ratings and metrics, and whether additional opportunities will evolve for companies to manage the adverse aspects of the tax legislation, including the impacts on certain credit metrics. in addition, the ferc and state public utility commissions have started to engage with our utility subsidiaries to determine how any tax savings will be returned to customers. we expect that our utility subsidiaries will return the tax benefits to their customers through refunds, bill credits, riders, or reductions in regulatory assets. the amount of tax benefits to be returned to customers will ultimately be determined by our regulators. if the amounts our regulators order our utility subsidiaries to return to customers exceeds the actual amount of tax savings realized, or our regulators require the tax savings to be applied in a manner other than we had expected, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. while our analysis and interpretation of the tax legislation is preliminary and ongoing, based on our current evaluation, we do not expect the limitations on interest deductions to materially adversely affect our earnings per share. any amendments to the tax legislation or interpretations or implementing regulations by the treasury department and/or the irs contrary to our interpretation of the tax legislation could limit our ability to deduct the interest on some of our outstanding debt. there may be other material adverse effects resulting from the tax legislation that we have not yet identified. if we are unable to successfully take actions to manage any adverse impacts of the tax legislation, or if additional interpretations, regulations, amendments or technical corrections exacerbate the adverse impacts of the tax legislation, the tax legislation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and on the value of investments in our debt securities and common stock, and could result in credit rating agencies placing our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings on negative outlook or downgrading our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings. any such actions by credit rating agencies may make it more difficult and costly for us and our subsidiaries to issue future debt securities and certain other types of financing and could increase borrowing costs under our and our subsidiaries' credit facilities. failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act could have a material effect on our results of operations and stock price. we are subject to reporting, disclosure control, and other obligations under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act (sox). sox contains provisions requiring our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. we have undertaken, or will undertake, a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize, and streamline our operations with technology, including, but not limited to, an enterprise resource planning system and a customer information and billing system. there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective because of the discovery of material weaknesses, with either our current controls and processes or with the implementation of new controls and processes around these new technologies. any failure to maintain effective internal controls or a determination by our independent registered public accounting firm that we have a material weakness in our internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports, cause a decline in the market price of our common stock, restrict our access to the capital markets, or subject us to investigations by the sec or other regulatory authorities. our electric utilities could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. our electric utilities are subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject our electric utilities to higher operating costs. if our electric utilities were ever found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. 2017 form 10-k 27 wec energy group, inc. table of contents provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act (holding company act), we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the holding company act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, the holding company act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors, and the public. this provision and other requirements of the holding company act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wec energy group. as a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. risks related to the operation of our business our operations are subject to risks arising from the reliability of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, natural gas infrastructure facilities, and other facilities, as well as the reliability of third-party transmission providers. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generation and natural gas and electric distribution facilities. the operation of these facilities involves many risks, including operator error and the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes. potential breakdown or failure may occur due to severe weather; catastrophic events (i.e., fires, earthquakes, explosions, tornadoes, floods, droughts, pandemic health events, etc.); significant changes in water levels in waterways; fuel supply or transportation disruptions; accidents; employee labor disputes; construction delays or cost overruns; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material, and/or labor; performance below expected levels; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; or cyber security intrusions. any of these events could lead to substantial financial losses. because our electric generation facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission facilities, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by events impacting their systems. unplanned outages at our power plants may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. insurance, warranties, performance guarantees, or recovery through the regulatory process may not cover any or all of these lost revenues or increased expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to various conditions that can result in fluctuations in energy sales to customers, including customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas, varying weather conditions, and energy conservation efforts. our results of operations and cash flows are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas, which can vary greatly based upon: fluctuations in customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas. customer growth and energy use can be negatively impacted by population declines as well as economic factors in our service territories, including job losses, decreases in income, and business closings. our electric and natural gas utilities are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products. these risks could directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas as well as the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. we could also be exposed to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills. weather conditions . demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, milder temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season may result in lower revenues and net income. our customers' continued focus on energy conservation and ability to meet their own energy needs . our customers' use of electricity and natural gas has decreased as a result of continued individual conservation efforts, including the use of more energy efficient technologies. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income and increases in energy prices. conservation of energy can be influenced by certain federal and state 2017 form 10-k 28 wec energy group, inc. table of contents programs that are intended to influence how consumers use energy. for example, several states, including wisconsin and michigan, have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. as part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer growth and general economic conditions, weather, and customer energy conservation efforts, but risks still remain. any of these matters, as well as any regulatory delay in adjusting rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we are actively involved with several significant capital projects, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. in addition, wbs continues to invest in technology and the development of software applications to support our utilities. achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties, some of which we will have limited or no control over, that could adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, the ability to adhere to established budgets and time frames; the availability of labor or materials at estimated costs; the ability of contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable laws or regulations; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy. in addition, certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. if construction of commission-approved projects should materially and adversely deviate from the schedules, estimates, and projections on which the approval was based, our regulators may deem the additional capital costs as imprudent and disallow recovery of them through rates. to the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. advances in technology could make our electric generating facilities less competitive. research and development activities are ongoing for new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption. these technologies include renewable energy, customer-oriented generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. we generate power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive. it is possible that legislation or regulations could be adopted supporting the use of these technologies. there is also a risk that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station power production. if these technologies become cost competitive and achieve economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses. our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to, cyber security intrusions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information. we face on-going threats to our assets and technology systems. despite the implementation of strong security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, terrorist attacks, and physical or cyber security intrusions. these threats against our generation facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, our information and technology systems, and network infrastructure, including that of third parties on which we rely, could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, purchase, or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. if our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached, and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. we operate in an industry that requires the use of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which control an interconnected system of generation, distribution, and transmission systems shared with third parties. a successful physical or cyber security intrusion may occur despite our security measures or those that we require our vendors to take, which include compliance with reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards. successful cyber security intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage systems, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of service to customers. these intrusions may cause unplanned outages at our power plants, which may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional 2017 form 10-k 29 wec energy group, inc. table of contents maintenance expenses. the risk of such intrusions may also increase our capital and operating costs as a result of having to implement increased security measures for protection of our information technology and infrastructure. our continued efforts to integrate, consolidate, and streamline our operations have also resulted in increased reliance on current and recently completed projects for technology systems, including an enterprise resource planning system, a customer information and billing system, automated meter reading systems, and other similar technological tools and initiatives. we implement procedures to protect our systems, but we cannot guarantee that the procedures we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data and systems are adequate to safeguard against all security breaches. the failure of any of these or other similarly important technologies, or our inability to support, update, expand, and/or integrate these technologies across our subsidiaries could materially and adversely impact our operations, diminish customer confidence and our reputation, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against these risks, and subject us to possible financial liability or increased regulation or litigation. our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, shareholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. security breaches may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons, and/or could cause us to become subject to significant litigation, costs, liability, fines, or penalties, any of which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations as well as our reputation with customers, shareholders and regulators, among others. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such intrusions or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. we may also need to obtain additional insurance coverage related to the threat of such intrusions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions caused by these on-going threats to our assets and technology systems could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the costs of repairing damage to our facilities, operational disruptions, protecting personally identifiable information, and notifying impacted persons, as well as related legal claims, may also not be recoverable in rates, may exceed the insurance limits on our insurance policies, or, in some cases, may not be covered by insurance. transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. inherent in natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to us. the location of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. these activities may subject us to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations including, but not limited to, debt service, taxes, and other expenses, as well as pay dividends on our common stock, is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any of our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for the payment of dividends on our common stock. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us depends on their earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, and general financial condition, as well as regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. in addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay amounts to us depends on any statutory, regulatory, and/or contractual restrictions and limitations applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain specified levels of debt or equity ratios, working capital, or other assets. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. 2017 form 10-k 30 wec energy group, inc. table of contents we may fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations, including obligations under power purchase agreements, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, electricity, natural gas, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be required to replace the underlying commitment at current market prices or we may be unable to meet all of our customers' electric and natural gas requirements unless or until alternative supply arrangements are put in place. in such event, we may incur losses, and our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected. we have entered into several power purchase agreements with non-affiliated companies, and continue to look for additional opportunities to enter into these agreements. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under the power purchase agreements. although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more purchasers could fail to perform their obligations under the power purchase agreements. if this were to occur, we would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers. to the extent there is any regulatory delay in adjusting rates, a customer default under a power purchase agreement could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to use tax credits, net operating losses, and/or charitable contribution carryforwards. we have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax liability in the past through tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available under the applicable tax codes. we have not fully used the allowed tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions in our previous tax filings. we may not be able to fully use the tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available as carryforwards if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit their use. in addition, any future disallowance of some or all of those tax credits, net operating losses, or charitable contribution carryforwards as a result of legislation or an adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions could materially affect our tax obligations and financial results. we have recorded goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect financial results. we assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur that would indicate a potential for impairment. if goodwill is deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur material non-cash charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. at december 31, 2017 , our goodwill was $3,053.5 million . risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to credit and capital markets to support our capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity, which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. 2017 form 10-k 31 wec energy group, inc. table of contents our or our subsidiaries' access to the credit and capital markets could be limited, or our or our subsidiaries' cost of capital significantly increased, due to any of the following risks and uncertainties: a rating downgrade; an economic downturn or uncertainty; prevailing market conditions and rules; concerns over foreign economic conditions; changes in tax policy; war or the threat of war; and the overall health and view of the utility and financial institution industries. if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, and could limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level. a downgrade in our or any of our subsidiaries' credit ratings could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact our and our subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, but not limited to, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. we or any of our subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of us, our utilities, or the utility industry has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. any downgrade by the rating agencies could: increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities; require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the pool of creditors; decrease funding sources by limiting our or our subsidiaries' access to the commercial paper market; limit the availability of adequate credit support for our subsidiaries' operations; and trigger collateral requirements in various contracts. see the risk factor titled "recent changes in federal income tax policy may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings" above for information about how the tax legislation could impact our or our subsidiaries' credits ratings. fluctuating commodity prices could negatively impact our electric and natural gas utility operations. our operating and liquidity requirements are impacted by changes in the forward and current market prices of natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy credits, and ancillary services. our electric utilities burn natural gas in several of their electric generation plants and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. the cost of natural gas may increase because of disruptions in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution, international market conditions, the demand for natural gas, and the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility. for wisconsin retail electric customers, our utilities bear the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical 2% fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in their respective rate structures. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers and our wholesale electric customers. our natural gas utilities receive dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs from their natural gas customers. 2017 form 10-k 32 wec energy group, inc. table of contents changes in commodity prices could result in: higher working capital requirements, particularly related to natural gas inventory, accounts receivable, and cash collateral postings; reduced profitability to the extent that lower revenues, increased bad debt, and interest expense are not recovered through rates; higher rates charged to our customers, which could impact our competitive position; reduced demand for energy, which could impact revenues and operating expenses; and shutting down of generation facilities if the cost of generation exceeds the market price for electricity. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we own and operate several coal-fired electric generating units. although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to protect against an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory levels will be adequate. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, we cannot assure that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us, or we may experience operational problems or constraints that prevent us from taking delivery. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. furthermore, demand for coal can impact its availability and cost. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal-fired units, which could lead to increased fuel costs. the increase in fuel costs could result from either reduced margins on net sales into the miso energy markets, a reduction in the volume of net sales into the miso energy markets, and/or an increase in net power purchases in the miso energy markets. there is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed, either of which could adversely affect our cash flows. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards to manage commodity price exposure. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of our utilities must be approved by the various state commissions, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. restructuring in the regulated energy industry and competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a negative impact on our business and revenues. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including michigan and illinois, have adopted retail choice. under michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. the law limits customer choice to 10% of our michigan retail load. the iron ore mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan is excluded from this cap. when a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. although illinois has adopted retail choice, there is currently little or no impact on the net income of our illinois utilities as they still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. it is uncertain whether retail choice might be implemented in wisconsin or minnesota. the ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. all market participants, including us, must submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes an lmp that reflects the market price for energy. we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to 2017 form 10-k 33 wec energy group, inc. table of contents support miso's responsibility for maintaining the stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that schedules energy and ancillary services at the same time as part of the energy market, allowing for more efficient use of generation assets in the miso energy markets. these market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the miso energy markets, and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. the ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers, and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter. technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. we currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. we may experience poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings due to changes in assumptions and market conditions. we have significant obligations related to pension and opeb plans. if we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors, including actual plan experience, changes made to the plans, and assumptions concerning the future. types of assumptions include earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and our required or voluntary contributions to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. in addition, medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. our funding requirements could be impacted by a decline in the market value of plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in demographics (including the number of retirements), or changes in life expectancy assumptions. we may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources market risks and other significant risks, as well as note 1(p), fair value measurements , note 1(q), derivative instruments , and note 16, guarantees , for information concerning potential market risks to which we are exposed. 2017 form 10-k 72 wec energy group, inc. table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors and those identified below: factors affecting utility operations such as catastrophic weather-related damage, environmental incidents, unplanned facility outages and repairs and maintenance, and electric transmission or natural gas pipeline system constraints; factors affecting the demand for electricity and natural gas, including political developments, unusual weather, changes in economic conditions, customer growth and declines, commodity prices, energy conservation efforts, and continued adoption of distributed generation by customers; the timing, resolution, and impact of rate cases and negotiations, including recovery of deferred and current costs and the ability to earn a reasonable return on investment, and other regulatory decisions impacting our regulated operations; the ability to obtain and retain customers, including wholesale customers, due to increased competition in our electric and natural gas markets from retail choice and alternative electric suppliers, and continued industry consolidation; the timely completion of capital projects within budgets, as well as the recovery of the related costs through rates; the impact of federal, state, and local legislative and/or regulatory changes, including changes in rate-setting policies or procedures, deregulation and restructuring of the electric and/or natural gas utility industries, transmission or distribution system operation, the approval process for new construction, reliability standards, pipeline integrity and safety standards, allocation of energy assistance, energy efficiency mandates, and tax laws that affect our ability to use production tax credits and investment tax credits; the remaining uncertainty surrounding the tax legislation enacted in december 2017, including implementing regulations and irs interpretations, the amount to be returned to our ratepayers, and any further impact on our and our subsidiaries' credit ratings; federal and state legislative and regulatory changes relating to the environment, including climate change and other environmental regulations impacting generation facilities and renewable energy standards, the enforcement of these laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation of regulations or permit conditions by regulatory agencies, and the recovery of associated remediation and compliance costs; factors affecting the implementation of our generation reshaping plan, including related regulatory decisions, the cost of materials, supplies, and labor, and the feasibility of competing projects; increased pressure on us by investors and other stakeholder groups to take more aggressive action to reduce future ghg emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases; the risks associated with changing commodity prices, particularly natural gas and electricity, and the availability of sources of fossil fuel, natural gas, purchased power, materials needed to operate environmental controls at our electric generating facilities, 2018 form 10-k 1 wec energy group, inc. table of contents or water supply due to high demand, shortages, transportation problems, nonperformance by electric energy or natural gas suppliers under existing power purchase or natural gas supply contracts, or other developments; changes in credit ratings, interest rates, and our ability to access the capital markets, caused by volatility in the global credit markets, our capitalization structure, and market perceptions of the utility industry, us, or any of our subsidiaries; costs and effects of litigation, administrative proceedings, investigations, settlements, claims, and inquiries; restrictions imposed by various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances, that could prevent us from paying our common stock dividends, taxes, and other expenses, and meeting our debt obligations; the risk of financial loss, including increases in bad debt expense, associated with the inability of our customers, counterparties, and affiliates to meet their obligations; changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; the direct or indirect effect on our business resulting from terrorist attacks and cyber security intrusions, as well as the threat of such incidents, including the failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, the associated costs to protect our utility assets, technology systems, and personal information, and the costs to notify affected persons to mitigate their information security concerns and to comply with state notification laws; the financial performance of atc and its corresponding contribution to our earnings, as well as the ability of atc and datc to obtain the required approvals for their transmission projects; the investment performance of our employee benefit plan assets, as well as unanticipated changes in related actuarial assumptions, which could impact future funding requirements; factors affecting the employee workforce, including loss of key personnel, internal restructuring, work stoppages, and collective bargaining agreements and negotiations with union employees; advances in technology, and related legislation or regulation supporting the use of that technology, that result in competitive disadvantages and create the potential for impairment of existing assets; the risk associated with the values of goodwill and other intangible assets and their possible impairment; potential business strategies to acquire and dispose of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed timely or within budgets, and legislative or regulatory restrictions or caps on non-utility acquisitions, investments or projects, including the state of wisconsin's public utility holding company law; the timing and outcome of any audits, disputes, and other proceedings related to taxes; the ability to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, while both integrating and continuing to consolidate our enterprise systems; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and other considerations disclosed elsewhere herein and in other reports we file with the sec or in other publicly disseminated written documents. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 2018 form 10-k 2 wec energy group, inc. table of contents part i item 1. business a. introduction in this report, when we refer to "wec energy group," "the company," "us," "we," "our," or "ours," we are referring to wec energy group, inc. and all of its subsidiaries. the term "utility" refers to the regulated activities of the electric and natural gas utility companies, while the term "non-utility" refers to the activities of the electric and natural gas companies that are not regulated, as well as we power and bluewater. the term "nonregulated" refers to activities at bishop hill iii, coyote ridge, wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, the pellc holding company, wispark, bostco, wisvest, wecc, wbs, pdl, and itf. references to "notes" are to the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. for more information about our business operations, see note 20, segment information , and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations. wec energy group, inc. we were incorporated in the state of wisconsin in 1981 and became a diversified holding company in 1986. we maintain our principal executive offices in milwaukee, wisconsin. on june 29, 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of integrys and changed our name to wec energy group, inc. our wholly owned subsidiaries provide regulated natural gas and electricity, as well as nonregulated renewable energy. another subsidiary, itf, provided cng products and services prior to its sale in the first quarter of 2016. see note 3, dispositions, for more information on this sale. we have an approximately 60% equity interest in atc (an electric transmission company operating in illinois, michigan, minnesota, and wisconsin). at december 31, 2018 , we had six reportable segments, which are discussed below. for additional information about our reportable segments, see note 20, segment information . available information our annual and periodic filings with the sec are available, free of charge, on our website, www.wecenergygroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. you may also obtain materials we filed with or furnished to the sec on their website at www.sec.gov . b. utility energy operations wisconsin segment the wisconsin segment includes the electric and natural gas utility operations of we, wg, wps, and umerc, which includes we's former electric operations and wps's former electric and natural gas operations in the state of michigan that were transferred to umerc effective january 1, 2017. in december 2016, both the mpsc and the pscw approved the operation of umerc as a stand-alone utility in the upper peninsula of michigan. see note 24, regulatory environment, for more information . umerc became operational effective january 1, 2017, and we and wps transferred customers and property, plant, and equipment as of that date. we transferred approximately 27,500 retail electric customers and 50 electric distribution-only customers to umerc, along with approximately 2,500 miles of electric distribution lines. wps transferred approximately 9,000 retail electric customers and 5,300 natural gas customers to umerc, along with approximately 600 miles of electric distribution lines and approximately 100 miles of natural gas distribution mains. we and wps also transferred related electric distribution substations in the upper peninsula of michigan and all property rights for the distribution assets to umerc. the book value of net assets, including the related deferred income tax liabilities, transferred to umerc from we and wps as of january 1, 2017, was $61.1 million and $20.6 million, respectively. this transaction was a non-cash equity transfer recorded to additional paid in capital between entities under common control, and therefore, did not result in the recognition of a gain or loss. 2018 form 10-k 3 wec energy group, inc. table of contents electric utility operations for the periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k, our electric utility operations included operations of we and wps for all periods, and operations for umerc beginning january 1, 2017, due to the transfer of customers and assets located in the upper peninsula of michigan from we and wps. we, which is the largest electric utility in the state of wisconsin, generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in southeastern wisconsin (including the metropolitan milwaukee area), east central wisconsin, and northern wisconsin, and serves an iron ore mine customer, tilden, in the upper peninsula of michigan. this customer will become a customer of umerc once the new generation solution in the upper peninsula of michigan begins commercial operation, which is expected to occur during the second quarter of 2019. wps generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in northeastern and central wisconsin. umerc distributes electric energy to customers located in the upper peninsula of michigan. umerc currently meets its market obligations through power purchase agreements with we and wps. umerc will begin to generate electricity when its new generation solution in the upper peninsula of michigan begins commercial operation. for more information on umerc's new generation solution, see the discussion below under the heading "natural gas-fired generation." operating revenues the following table shows electric utility operating revenues, including steam operations. for information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the year ended december 31, 2018, see note 4, operating revenues . for more information about our significant accounting policies related to the recognition of revenues, see note 1(d), operating revenues . year ended december 31 (in millions) 2017 2016 operating revenues residential $ 1,581.5 $ 1,620.7 small commercial and industrial (1) 1,400.9 1,418.1 large commercial and industrial (1) 913.7 949.5 other 30.5 29.8 retail (1) 3,926.6 4,018.1 wholesale 233.4 231.2 resale 270.6 247.1 steam 23.3 27.2 other operating revenues (2) 105.1 104.5 total operating revenues (1) $ 4,559.0 $ 4,628.1 (1) includes distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in michigan. (2) includes ssr revenues, amounts collected from (refunded to) customers for certain fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from costs included in rates, and other revenues, partially offset by revenues from tilden that are being deferred until a future rate proceeding. for more information, see the discussion below under the heading "large electric retail customers." electric sales our electric energy deliveries included supply and distribution sales to retail and wholesale customers and distribution sales to those customers who switched to an alternative electric supplier. in 2018 , retail electric revenues accounted for 90.0% of total electric operating revenues, while wholesale and resale electric revenues accounted for 9.1% of total electric operating revenues. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations wisconsin segment contribution to operating income for information on mwh sales by customer class. our electric utilities are authorized to provide retail electric service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities, and in certain territories in the state of michigan pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities. 2018 form 10-k 4 wec energy group, inc. table of contents our electric utilities buy and sell wholesale electric power by participating in the miso energy markets. the cost of our individual generation offered into the miso energy markets compared to our competitors affects how often our generating units are dispatched and whether we buy or sell power, based on our customers' needs. for more information, see d. regulation. steam sales we has a steam utility that generates, distributes, and sells steam supplied by vapp to customers in metropolitan milwaukee, wisconsin. steam is used by customers for processing, space heating, domestic hot water, and humidification. annual sales of steam fluctuate from year to year based on system growth and variations in weather conditions. in april 2016, we sold the mcpp steam generation and distribution assets, located in wauwatosa, wisconsin. mcpp primarily provided steam to the milwaukee regional medical center hospitals and other campus buildings. see note 3, dispositions, for more information . electric sales forecast our service territories experienced growth in weather-normalized retail electric sales in 2018 due to customer growth. we currently forecast retail electric sales volumes and the associated peak demand, excluding the tilden mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan, to grow between flat and 0.5% over the next five years, assuming normal weather. customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 electric customers end of year residential 1,441.3 1,431.4 1,421.7 small commercial and industrial 173.2 172.2 171.1 large commercial and industrial 0.9 0.9 0.9 other 2.7 2.6 2.6 total electric customers end of year 1,618.1 1,607.1 1,596.3 steam customers end of year 0.4 0.4 0.4 large electric retail customers we provide electric utility service to a diversified base of customers in industries such as paper, metals and other manufacturing, governmental, food products, municipalities, cooperatives, and marketers, health services, retail, mining, and education. in february 2015, tilden, along with another affiliated iron ore mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan, returned as customers after choosing an alternative electric supplier in september 2013. for more information on alternative electric suppliers, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources competitive markets. we entered into a contract with each of the mines to provide full requirements electric service through december 31, 2019. since 2015, we have been deferring, and expect to continue to defer, the revenues less costs of sales from the mine sales and will apply these amounts for the benefit of wisconsin retail electric customers in a future rate proceeding, as ordered by the pscw. in 2016, one of the iron ore mines closed, and the related contract for full requirements electric service was terminated. in august 2016, we entered into a new agreement with tilden under which it will purchase electric power from umerc for 20 years for the remaining mine, contingent upon umerc's construction of natural gas-fired generation in the upper peninsula of michigan. tilden will continue to receive full requirements electric service from we under the existing contract until umerc's generation solution in the upper peninsula of michigan begins commercial operation, which is expected to occur during the second quarter of 2019. see note 24, regulatory environment, for more information , as well as the discussion under the heading "natural gas-fired generation" below. 2018 form 10-k 5 wec energy group, inc. table of contents wholesale customers we provide wholesale electric service to various customers, including electric cooperatives, municipal joint action agencies, other investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities, and energy marketers. wholesale sales accounted for 7.7% , 7.6%, and 7.4% of total electric energy sales volumes during 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. wholesale revenues accounted for 4.8%, 5.1%, and 5.0% of total electric operating revenues during 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. resale the majority of our sales for resale are sold into an energy market operated by miso at market rates based on availability of our generation and market demand. resale sales accounted for 12.8% , 18.2%, and 17.5% of total electric energy sales volumes during 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. resale revenues accounted for 4.3%, 5.9%, and 5.3% of total electric operating revenues during 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. retail fuel costs are reduced by the amount that revenue exceeds the costs of sales derived from these opportunity sales. electric generation and supply mix our electric supply strategy is to provide our customers with energy from plants using a diverse fuel mix that is expected to maintain a stable, reliable, and affordable supply of electricity. through our participation in the miso energy markets, we supply a significant amount of electricity to our customers from power plants that we own. we supplement our internally generated power supply with long-term power purchase agreements, including the point beach power purchase agreement discussed under the heading "power purchase commitments," and through spot purchases in the miso energy markets. we also sell excess capacity into the miso energy markets when it is economical, which reduces net fuel costs by offsetting costs of purchased power. our rated capacity by fuel type as of december 31 is shown below. for more information on our electric generation facilities, see item 2. properties. rated capacity in mw (1) 2018 2017 2016 coal 3,518 4,935 4,933 natural gas: combined cycle 1,799 1,753 1,697 steam turbine (2) 347 314 320 natural gas/oil peaking units (3) 1,444 1,458 1,413 renewables (4) 220 273 273 total rated capacity 7,328 8,733 8,636 (1) rated capacity is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year. we have summer peaking electric utilities, and amounts are primarily based on expected capacity ratings for the following summer. the values were established by tests and may change slightly from year to year. (2) the natural gas steam turbine represents the rated capacity associated with vapp as well as weston unit 2. (3) certain dual-fueled facilities generally burn oil only if natural gas is not available due to constraints on the natural gas pipeline and/or at the local natural gas distribution company that delivers natural gas to the plants. (4) includes hydroelectric, biomass, and wind generation. 2018 form 10-k 6 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the table below indicates our sources of electric energy supply as a percentage of sales for the three years ended december 31, as well as estimates for 2019 : estimate actual 2019 2018 2017 2016 company-owned generation units: coal * 35.9 % 44.7 % 48.5 % 45.7 % natural gas: combined cycle 23.9 % 19.7 % 16.5 % 18.2 % steam turbine 0.8 % 0.6 % 0.8 % 0.9 % natural gas/oil peaking units 1.1 % 1.7 % 1.1 % 1.1 % renewables 4.2 % 4.1 % 4.1 % 3.9 % total company-owned generation units 65.9 % 70.8 % 71.0 % 69.8 % power purchase contracts: nuclear 19.0 % 18.6 % 17.7 % 17.5 % natural gas 3.0 % 1.5 % 1.3 % 1.7 % renewables 3.1 % 2.4 % 2.9 % 2.8 % other 1.8 % 1.7 % 1.6 % 2.1 % total power purchase contracts 26.9 % 24.2 % 23.5 % 24.1 % purchased power from miso 7.2 % 5.0 % 5.5 % 6.1 % total purchased power 34.1 % 29.2 % 29.0 % 30.2 % total electric utility supply 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % * although the generation of pipp has been included as a source of our electric energy supply for the three years ended december 31, we have only included this generation facility as a source of our estimated 2019 electric energy supply through its expected retirement date on or before may 31, 2019. see note 6, property, plant, and equipment, for more information . reshaping our generation fleet the following discussion summarizes information about our generation facilities, including the planned reshaping of our generation fleet to balance reliability and customer cost with environmental stewardship. generation reshaping includes retiring older fossil fuel generation units, building state-of-the-art natural gas generation, and investing in cost-effective zero-carbon generation with a goal of reducing co 2 emissions by approximately 40% and 80% below 2005 levels by 2030 and 2050, respectively. coal-fired generation as of december 31, 2018 , our coal-fired generation consists of five operating plants with a rated capacity of 3,518 mw. for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. we plan to retire approximately 1,800 mw of coal-fired generation by 2020 as a result of wec energy group's generation reshaping plan. as part of this effort during 2018, we retired approximately 1,500 mw of coal-fired generation, including the pleasant prairie power plant, pulliam power plant, and the jointly-owned edgewater unit 4. we are required to retire pipp by may 31, 2019. for more information about the retirement of these plants, see note 6, property, plant, and equipment . natural gas-fired generation our natural gas-fired generation currently consists of nine operating plants, including peaking units, with a rated capacity of 3,400 mw as of december 31, 2018 . for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. in october 2017, the mpsc approved umerc's application for a certificate of necessity to begin construction of a long-term generation solution for electric reliability in the region. umerc is constructing and will operate approximately 180 mw of natural gas-fired generation in the upper peninsula of michigan. the new generation is expected to begin commercial operation during the second quarter of 2019. see note 24, regulatory environment, for more information . 2018 form 10-k 7 wec energy group, inc. table of contents oil-fired generation our oil-fired generation had a rated capacity of 190 mw as of december 31, 2018 . we also have natural gas-fired peaking units with a rated capacity of 1,239 mw, which have the ability to burn oil if natural gas is not available due to delivery constraints. for more information about our operating plants, see item 2. properties. renewable generation our electric utilities meet a portion of their electric generation supply with various renewable energy resources. this helps our electric utilities maintain compliance with renewable energy legislation in wisconsin and michigan. these renewable energy resources also help us maintain diversity in our generation portfolio, which effectively serves as a price hedge against future fuel costs, and will help mitigate the risk of potential unknown costs associated with any future carbon restrictions for electric generators. for more information about our renewable generation, see item 2. properties. i n december 2018, we received approval from the pscw for the dedicated renewable energy resource pilot program, a program for customers who wish to access a large-scale renewable project located in wisconsin that we would operate. the project will contribute toward meeting we's peak demand, adding up to 150 mw of renewables to we's portfolio. solar as part of our commitment to invest in zero-carbon generation, we plan to invest in utility scale solar of up to 350 mw within our wisconsin segment. in may 2018, wps, along with an unaffiliated utility, filed an application with the pscw for approval to acquire ownership interests in two proposed solar projects in wisconsin. badger hollow solar farm will be located in iowa county, wisconsin, and two creeks solar project will be located in manitowoc county, wisconsin. if approved, wps will own 100 mw of the output of each project for a total of 200 mw. i n december 2018, we received approval from the pscw for the solar now pilot program, which is expected to add 35 mw of renewables to we's portfolio and will allow commercial and industrial customers to site solar arrays on their property. hydroelectric our hydroelectric generating system consists of 30 operating plants with a total installed capacity of 173 mw and a rated capacity of 102 mw as of december 31, 2018 . all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. wind we have six wind sites, consisting of 352 turbines, with an installed capacity of 576 mw and a rated capacity of 72 mw as of december 31, 2018 . in april 2018, wps, along with two other non-affiliated utilities, completed the purchase of forward wind energy center, which consists of 86 wind turbines located in wisconsin with a total capacity of 138 mw. wps's proportionate share of forward wind energy center is 44.6%. see note 2, acquisitions, for more information . biomass we have a biomass-fueled power plant at a rothschild, wisconsin paper mill site. wood waste and wood shavings are used to produce a rated capacity of approximately 46 mw of electric power as well as steam to support the paper mill's operations. fuel for the power plant is supplied by both the paper mill and through contracts with biomass suppliers. the plant also has the ability to burn natural gas if wood waste and wood shavings are not available. electric system reliability the pscw requires us to maintain a planning reserve margin above our projected annual peak demand forecast to help ensure reliability of electric service to our customers. these planning reserve requirements are consistent with the miso calculated planning reserve margin. in 2008, the pscw established a 14.5% reserve margin requirement for long-term planning (planning years two through ten). for short-term planning (planning year one), the pscw requires wisconsin utilities to follow the planning reserve margin established by miso. miso has a 17.1% installed capacity reserve margin requirement for the planning year from june 1, 2018 , through may 31, 2019 , and a 16.8% installed capacity reserve margin requirement for the planning year from june 1, 2019 , 2018 form 10-k 8 wec energy group, inc. table of contents through may 31, 2020 . miso's short-term reserve margin requirements experience year-to-year fluctuations, primarily due to changes in the average forced outage rate of generation within the miso footprint. michigan legislation requires all electric providers to demonstrate to the mpsc that they have enough resources to serve the anticipated needs of their customers for a minimum of four consecutive planning years beginning in the upcoming planning year june 1, 2019 , through may 31, 2020 . the mpsc has established future planning reserve margin requirements based on the same study conducted by miso that determines the short-term reserve margin requirements. in both of our wisconsin and michigan jurisdictions, we have adequate capacity through company-owned generation units and power purchase contracts to meet the miso calculated planning reserve margin during the current planning year. we also fully anticipate that we will have adequate capacity to meet the planning reserve margin requirements for the upcoming planning year in both jurisdictions. however, extremely hot weather, unexpected equipment failure, or unavailability across the 15-state miso footprint could require us to call upon load management procedures. load management procedures allow for the reduction of energy use through agreements with customers to directly shut off their equipment or through interruptible service, where customers agree to reduce their load in the case of an emergency interruption. fuel and purchased power costs our retail electric rates in wisconsin are established by the pscw and include base amounts for fuel and purchased power costs. the electric fuel rules set by the pscw allow us to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, under- or over-collections of actual fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from the costs included in the rates charged to customers. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers. for more information about the fuel rules, see d. regulation. our average fuel and purchased power costs per mwh by fuel type were as follows for the years ended december 31: 2018 2017 2016 coal $ 23.54 $ 23.05 $ 23.09 natural gas combined cycle 21.69 22.65 18.79 natural gas/oil peaking units 49.06 53.91 45.08 biomass 97.33 118.76 103.24 purchased power 42.85 42.12 40.11 we and wps purchase coal under long-term contracts, which helps with price stability. in the past, coal and associated transportation services were exposed to volatility in pricing due to changing domestic and world-wide demand for coal and diesel fuel. to moderate the volatility, we and wps were both given pscw approval for a hedging program, which allowed them to hedge up to 75% of their potential risks related to rail transportation fuel surcharge exposure. however, due to decreased volatility over the last few years, we suspended the fuel surcharge hedging program in 2017. we purchase natural gas for our plants on the spot market from natural gas marketers, utilities, and producers, and we arrange for transportation of the natural gas to our plants. we have firm and interruptible transportation, as well as balancing and storage agreements, intended to support our plants' variable usage. we and wps also have pscw-approved programs that allow them to hedge up to 75% of their estimated natural gas use for electric generation in order to help manage their natural gas price risk. our hedging programs are generally implemented on a 36-month forward-looking basis. the results of these programs are reflected in the average costs of natural gas and purchased power. coal supply we diversify the coal supply for our electric generating facilities and jointly-owned plants by purchasing coal from several mines in wyoming, as well as from various other states. for 2019 , approximately 85% of our total projected coal requirements of 8.9 million tons are contracted under fixed-price contracts. see note 22, commitments and contingencies, for more information on amounts of coal purchases and coal deliveries under contract. 2018 form 10-k 9 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the annual tonnage amounts contracted for the next two years are as follows. we have not entered into any coal contracts for years after 2020. (in thousands) annual tonnage 2019 7,545 2020 2,317 coal deliveries all of our 2019 coal requirements are expected to be shipped by our owned or leased unit trains under existing transportation agreements. the unit trains transport the coal for electric generating facilities from mines in wyoming, pennsylvania, and montana. the coal is transported by train to our rail-served electric-generating facilities and to dock storage in superior, wisconsin, until needed by our lake vessel-served facility, pipp. see note 6, property, plant, and equipment, for more information about the planned retirement of pipp. additional small volume agreements may also be used to supplement the normal coal supply for our facilities. midcontinent independent system operator costs in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso developed and operates the miso energy markets, which include its bid-based energy and ancillary services markets. we are participants in the miso energy markets. for more information on miso, see d. regulation. power purchase commitments we enter into short and long-term power purchase commitments to meet a portion of our anticipated electric energy supply needs. our power purchase commitments with unaffiliated parties are 1,387 mw per year for 2019 and 2020, 1,379 mw for 2021, and 1,133 mw per year for 2022 and 2023, which exclude planning capacity purchases. these amounts include 1,033 mw per year related to a long-term power purchase agreement for electricity generated by point beach. due to the actual and planned retirement of generation resources, we have entered into purchase agreements to procure additional planning capacity in order to maintain our compliance with planning reserve requirements as established by the pscw, mpsc, and miso. other matters seasonality our electric utility sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions. we sell more electricity during the summer months because of the residential cooling load. we continue to upgrade our electric distribution system, including substations, transformers, and lines, to meet the demand of our customers. our generating plants performed as expected during the warmest periods of the summer, and all power purchase commitments under firm contract were received. during this period, we did not require public appeals for conservation, and it did not interrupt or curtail service to non-firm customers who participate in load management programs. in addition, wps did not require any public appeals for conservation, and it did not interrupt or curtail service to non-firm customers who participate in load management programs for capacity reasons. however, wps did have service curtailments for economic interruptions. economic interruptions are declared during times in which the price of electricity in the regional market exceeds the cost of operating the company's peaking generation. during this time, interruptible customers can choose to continue using electricity at a price based on wholesale market prices. competition our electric utilities face competition from various entities and other forms of energy sources available to customers, including self-generation by large industrial customers and alternative energy sources. our electric utilities compete with other utilities for sales to municipalities and cooperatives as well as with other utilities and marketers for wholesale electric business. for more information on competition in our service territories, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources competitive markets. 2018 form 10-k 10 wec energy group, inc. table of contents environmental matters for information regarding environmental matters, especially as they relate to coal-fired generating facilities, see note 22, commitments and contingencies . natural gas utility operations we are authorized to provide retail natural gas distribution service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities. we also transport customer-owned natural gas. together our natural gas distribution utilities are the largest in wisconsin, and we operate throughout the state, including the city of milwaukee and surrounding areas, northeastern wisconsin, and in large areas of both central and western wisconsin. effective january 1, 2017, wps transferred its natural gas customers and natural gas distribution assets located in the upper peninsula of michigan to umerc, which is included in our wisconsin segment. more information about umerc is included at the beginning of the wisconsin segment section. we provide natural gas utility service to a diversified base of industrial customers who are largely within our electric service territory. major industries served include governmental, food products, paper, education, and metals manufacturing. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations wisconsin segment contribution to operating income for information on natural gas sales volumes by customer class in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan. operating revenues the following table shows natural gas utility operating revenues for our wisconsin segment. for information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the year ended december 31, 2018, see note 4, operating revenues . for more information about our significant accounting policies related to the recognition of revenues, see note 1(d), operating revenues . year ended december 31 (in millions) 2017 2016 operating revenues residential $ 809.3 $ 763.2 commercial and industrial 395.5 355.3 total retail revenues 1,204.8 1,118.5 transport 72.6 69.7 other operating revenues * (7.2 ) (10.6 ) total operating revenues $ 1,270.2 $ 1,177.6 * includes amounts refunded to customers for purchased gas adjustment costs. natural gas sales forecast our combined wisconsin service territories experienced growth in weather-normalized retail natural gas deliveries (excluding natural gas deliveries for electric generation) in 2018 due to customer growth. we currently forecast retail natural gas delivery volumes to grow at a rate between 0.5% and 1.0% over the next five years, assuming normal weather. customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 customers end of year residential 1,329.6 1,318.3 1,306.3 commercial and industrial 130.6 129.7 129.0 transport 3.0 2.8 2.6 total customers 1,463.2 1,450.8 1,437.9 2018 form 10-k 11 wec energy group, inc. table of contents natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we have been able to meet our contractual obligations with both our suppliers and our customers. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 22, commitments and contingencies . pipeline and storage capacity the interstate pipelines serving wisconsin originate in major natural gas producing areas of north america: the oklahoma and texas basins, western canada, and the rocky mountains. we have contracted for long-term firm capacity from a number of these sources. this strategy reflects management's belief that overall supply security is enhanced by geographic diversification of the supply portfolio. due to variations in natural gas usage in wisconsin, we have also contracted for substantial underground storage capacity, primarily in michigan. we target storage inventory levels at approximately 40% of forecasted demand for november through march. diversity of natural gas supply enables us to manage significant changes in demand and to optimize our overall natural gas supply and capacity costs. we generally inject natural gas into storage during the spring and summer months and withdraw it in the winter months. in june 2017, we completed the acquisition of bluewater. bluewater owns natural gas storage facilities in michigan that provide approximately one-third of the current storage needs for our wisconsin natural gas utilities. see note 2, acquisitions, for more information on this transaction. we hold daily transportation and storage capacity entitlements with interstate pipeline companies as well as other service providers under varied-length long-term contracts. pipeline and storage capacity and natural gas supplies under contract can be resold in secondary markets. peak or near-peak demand generally occurs only a few times each year. the secondary markets facilitate utilization of capacity and supply during times when the contracted capacity and supply are in excess of utility demand. the proceeds from these transactions are passed through to customers, subject to our approved gcrms. for information on the gcrms, see note 1(d), operating revenues . to ensure a reliable supply of natural gas during peak winter conditions, we have liquefied natural gas and propane facilities located within our distribution system. these facilities are typically utilized during extreme demand conditions to ensure reliable supply to our customers. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of natural gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. our wisconsin natural gas utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 32.5 million therms for the 2018 through 2019 heating season. our peak daily send-out during 2018 was 24.2 million therms on january 4, 2018 . natural gas supply we have contracts for firm supplies with terms of 3 5 months with suppliers for natural gas acquired in the chicago, illinois market hub and in the producing areas discussed above. the pricing of the term contracts is based upon first of the month indices. we expect to continue to make natural gas purchases in the spot market as price and other circumstances dictate. we have supply relationships with a number of sellers from whom we purchase natural gas in the spot market. hedging natural gas supply prices we, wps, and wg have pscw approval to hedge up to 60% of planned winter demand and up to 15% of planned summer demand using a mix of nymex-based natural gas options and futures contracts. these approvals allow these companies to pass 100% of the hedging costs (premiums and brokerage fees) and proceeds (gains and losses) to customers through their respective gcrms. to the extent that opportunities develop and physical supply operating plans are supportive, we, wg, and wps also have pscw approval to utilize nymex-based natural gas derivatives to capture favorable forward-market price differentials. these approvals provide for 100% of the related proceeds to accrue to these companies' respective gcrms. 2018 form 10-k 12 wec energy group, inc. table of contents seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to some variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition we face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. many large commercial and industrial customers have the ability to switch between natural gas and alternative fuels. commercial and industrial customers have the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. we offer both natural gas transportation service and interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution systems to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change. illinois segment our illinois segment includes the natural gas utility operations of pgl and nsg. pgl and nsg, both illinois corporations, began operations in 1855 and 1900, respectively. our customers are located in chicago and the northern suburbs of chicago. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations illinois segment contribution to operating income for information on natural gas sales volumes by customer class. illinois utilities operating statistics operating revenues the following table shows natural gas operating revenues for our illinois utilities. for information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the year ended december 31, 2018, see note 4, operating revenues . for more information about our significant accounting policies related to the recognition of revenues, see note 1(d), operating revenues . year ended december 31 (in millions) 2017 2016 operating revenues residential $ 934.8 $ 839.2 commercial and industrial 156.7 136.5 total retail revenues 1,091.5 975.7 transport 246.9 239.4 other operating revenues 17.1 27.1 total operating revenues $ 1,355.5 $ 1,242.2 2018 form 10-k 13 wec energy group, inc. table of contents customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 customers end of year residential 863.2 849.8 822.6 commercial and industrial 72.1 72.9 71.3 transport 97.5 107.5 109.5 total customers 1,032.8 1,030.2 1,003.4 natural gas supply, pipeline capacity, and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 22, commitments and contingencies . pipeline capacity and storage we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having multiple pipelines that serve our natural gas service territory benefits our customers by improving reliability, providing access to a diverse supply of natural gas, and fostering competition among these service providers. these benefits can lead to favorable conditions for our illinois utilities when negotiating new agreements for transportation and storage services. we own a 38.8 bcf storage field (manlove field in central illinois) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. storage allows us to manage significant changes in daily natural gas demand and to purchase steady levels of natural gas on a year-round basis, which provides a hedge against supply cost volatility. we also own a natural gas pipeline system that connects manlove field to chicago and nine major interstate pipelines. these assets are directed primarily to serving rate-regulated retail customers and are included in our regulatory rate base. we also use a portion of these company-owned storage and pipeline assets as a natural gas hub, which consists of providing transportation and storage services in interstate commerce to our wholesale customers. customers deliver natural gas to us for storage through an injection into the storage reservoir, and we return the natural gas to the customers under an agreed schedule through a withdrawal from the storage reservoir. title to the natural gas does not transfer to us. we recognize service fees associated with the natural gas hub services provided to wholesale customers. these service fees reduce the cost of natural gas and services charged to retail customers in rates. we had adequate capacity to meet all firm natural gas demand obligations during 2018 and expect to have adequate capacity to meet all firm demand obligations during 2019. our illinois utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 24.8 million therms for the 2018 through 2019 heating season. natural gas supply our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, peak-shaving facilities, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. hedging natural gas supply prices our illinois utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. their hedging programs are approved by the icc. they hedge between 25% and 50% of natural gas purchases, with a target of 37.5%. natural gas system modernization program pgl is continuing work on the smp, a project to replace approximately 2,000 miles of chicago's aging natural gas pipeline infrastructure that began in 2011. pgl currently recovers these costs through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an icc approved qip rider, which is in effect through 2023. for information on regulatory proceedings related to the smp, see note 24, regulatory environment . 2018 form 10-k 14 wec energy group, inc. table of contents seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our illinois utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition although our illinois utilities' rates are regulated by the icc, we still face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. absent extraordinary circumstances, potential competitors are not allowed to construct competing natural gas distribution systems in our service territory due to a judicial doctrine known as the "first in the field." in addition, we believe it would be impractical to construct competing duplicate distribution facilities due to the high cost of installation. since 2002, all our illinois utilities' natural gas customers have had the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. as a result, we offer natural gas transportation service to enable customers to directly manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution system to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. an interstate pipeline may seek to provide transportation service directly to end users, which would bypass our natural gas transportation service. however, we have a bypass rate approved by the icc, which allows us to negotiate rates with customers that are potential bypass candidates to help ensure that such customers use our transportation service. other states segment our other states segment includes the natural gas utility operations of merc and mgu. merc serves customers in various cities and communities throughout minnesota, and mgu serves customers in southern and western michigan. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations other states segment contribution to operating income for information on natural gas sales volumes by customer class for this segment. 2018 form 10-k 15 wec energy group, inc. table of contents other states utilities operating statistics operating revenues the following table shows natural gas operating revenues for our other states utilities. for information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the year ended december 31, 2018, see note 4, operating revenues . for more information about our significant accounting policies related to the recognition of revenues, see note 1(d), operating revenues . year ended december 31 (in millions) 2017 2016 operating revenues residential $ 220.2 $ 209.3 commercial and industrial 123.9 110.7 total retail revenues 344.1 320.0 transport 31.4 31.7 other operating revenues 35.7 24.8 total operating revenues $ 411.2 $ 376.5 customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2018 2017 2016 customers end of year residential 356.5 353.0 348.1 commercial and industrial 34.9 34.5 34.1 transport 24.7 24.2 24.8 total customers 416.1 411.7 407.0 natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 22, commitments and contingencies . pipeline capacity and storage we own a storage field (partello in michigan) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having diverse capacity and storage benefits our customers. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. forecasted design peak-day throughput for our other states utilities is 8.7 million therms for the 2018 through 2019 heating season. natural gas supply our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. hedging natural gas supply prices our other states utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. merc has mpuc approval to hedge up to 30% of planned winter 2018 form 10-k 16 wec energy group, inc. table of contents demand using nymex financial instruments. mgu has mpsc approval to hedge up to 20% of its planned annual purchases using nymex financial instruments. seasonality since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. our other states utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition although our other states utilities' rates are regulated by the mpuc and mpsc, we still face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. natural gas utilities in the state of minnesota do not have exclusive franchise service territories and, as a matter of law and policy, natural gas utilities may compete for new customers. however, natural gas utilities have customarily avoided competing for existing customers of other utilities, as there would be duplicative utility facilities and/or increased costs to customers. if this approach were to change, it could lead to a greater level of utility to utility competition for customers. many large commercial and industrial customers have the ability to switch between natural gas and alternative fuels. in addition, merc commercial and industrial customers and all mgu customers have the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. we offer natural gas transportation service and also offer interruptible natural gas sales to enable customers to better manage their energy costs. transportation customers purchase natural gas directly from third-party natural gas suppliers and use our distribution systems to transport the natural gas to their facilities. we still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. customers continue to switch between firm system supply, interruptible system supply, and transportation service each year as the economics and service options change. electric transmission segment atc is a regional transmission company that owns, maintains, monitors, and operates electric transmission systems in wisconsin, michigan, illinois, and minnesota. atc is expected to provide comparable service to all customers, including we, wps, and umerc, and to support effective competition in energy markets without favoring any market participant. atc is regulated by the ferc for all rate terms and conditions of service and is a transmission-owning member of miso. miso maintains operational control of atc's transmission system, and we, wps, and umerc are non-transmission owning members and customers of miso. as of december 31, 2018 , our ownership interest in atc was approximately 60%. in addition, we own approximately 75% of atc holdco, a separate entity formed in december 2016 to invest in transmission-related projects outside of atc's traditional footprint. in april 2011, atc and duke energy announced the creation of a joint venture, datc, that seeks opportunities to acquire, build, own, and operate new electric transmission infrastructure in north america to address increasing demand for affordable, reliable transmission capacity. in april 2013, datc acquired a 72% interest in california's path 15 transmission rights. datc continues to evaluate new projects and opportunities, along with participating in the competitive bidding process on projects it considers viable. these projects are located in the service territories of several different rtos around the country. see note 19, investment in transmission affiliates, for more information . atc is currently named as one of several parties to a complaint filed with the ferc requesting a reduction in the base roe used by miso transmission owners. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources other matters american transmission company allowed return on equity complaints, for more information. 2018 form 10-k 17 wec energy group, inc. table of contents c. non-utility operations non-utility energy infrastructure segment the non-utility energy infrastructure segment includes we power, which owns and leases generating facilities to we; bluewater, which owns underground natural gas storage facilities in michigan; our 90% membership interest in bishop hill iii, a wind generating facility; our 80% membership interest in coyote ridge, a wind generating facility under construction; and our 80% membership interest in upstream, a wind generating facility acquired in january 2019. see note 2, acquisitions , for more information. we power, through wholly owned subsidiaries, designed and built approximately 2,450 mw of generation in wisconsin. this generation is made up of capacity from the ergs units, er 1 and er 2, which were placed in service in february 2010 and january 2011, respectively, and the pwgs units, pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, which were placed in service in july 2005 and may 2008, respectively. two unaffiliated entities collectively own approximately 17%, or approximately 211 mw, of er 1 and er 2. we power's share of the ergs units and both pwgs units are being leased to we under long-term leases (the ergs units have 30-year leases and the pwgs units have 25-year leases), and are positioned to provide a significant portion of our future generation needs. because of the significant investment necessary to construct these generating units, we constructed the plants under wisconsin's leased generation law, which allows a non-utility affiliate to construct an electric generating facility and lease it to the public utility. the law allows a public utility that has entered into a lease approved by the pscw to recover fully in its retail electric rates that portion of any payments under the lease that the pscw has allocated to the public utility's wisconsin retail electric service, and all other costs that are prudently incurred in the public utility's operation and maintenance of the electric generating facility allocated to the utility's wisconsin retail electric service. in addition, the pscw may not modify or terminate a lease it has approved under the leased generation law except as specifically provided in the lease or the pscw's order approving the lease. this law effectively created regulatory certainty in light of the significant investment being made to construct the units. all four units were constructed under leases approved by the pscw. we are recovering our costs of these units, including subsequent capital additions, through lease payments that are billed from we power to we and then recovered in we's rates as authorized by the pscw, the mpsc, and the ferc. under the lease terms, our return is calculated using a 12.7% roe and the equity ratio is assumed to be 55% for the ergs units and 53% for the pwgs units. bluewater, located in michigan, provides natural gas storage and hub services for our wisconsin natural gas utilities. we, wg, and wps have entered into long-term service agreements for natural gas storage with a wholly owned subsidiary of bluewater. bishop hill iii is a 132 mw wind generating facility consisting of 53 wind turbines located in henry county, illinois. bishop hill iii has a 22-year offtake agreement with an unaffiliated company for the sale of all energy produced by the facility. we have a 90% membership interest in bishop hill iii. under the tax legislation, our investment in bishop hill iii qualifies for production tax credits and 100% bonus depreciation. coyote ridge is a wind generating facility under construction in brookings county, south dakota. the wind generating facility is expected to be in service by the end of 2019. the coyote ridge site will consist of 39 wind turbines with a combined capacity of 97.5 mw. the project has a 12-year offtake agreement with an unaffiliated third party for all energy produced by the facility. we have an 80% membership interest in coyote ridge. under the tax legislation, our investment in coyote ridge is expected to qualify for production tax credits and 100% bonus depreciation. we are entitled to 99% of the tax benefits related to this facility. in january 2019, we purchased an 80% membership interest in upstream, a commercially operational 202.5 mw wind generating facility consisting of 81 wind turbines located in antelope county, nebraska, which supplies energy to the southwest power pool. upstream's revenue will be substantially fixed over a 10-year period through an agreement with an unaffiliated third party. under the tax legislation, our investment in upstream qualifies for production tax credits and 100% bonus depreciation. corporate and other segment the corporate and other segment includes the operations of the wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, and the pellc holding company, as well as the operations of wispark, bostco (prior to the sale of substantially all of its remaining assets in the first quarter of 2017 and its dissolution in october 2018), wisvest (prior to the sale of its assets in the second quarter of 2018 form 10-k 18 wec energy group, inc. table of contents 2016), wecc, wbs, pdl, and itf (prior to the sale of this business in the first quarter of 2016). see note 3, dispositions, for more information on the sale of wisvest's and bostco's assets and itf. wispark develops and invests in real estate, primarily in southeastern wisconsin. wispark had $40.7 million in real estate holdings at december 31, 2018. bostco was originally formed to develop and invest in real estate. in march 2017, we sold the remaining real estate holdings of bostco located in downtown milwaukee, wisconsin. see note 3, dispositions, for more information . in october 2018, bostco was dissolved. wisvest was originally formed to develop, own, and operate electric generating facilities and to invest in other energy-related entities. however, wisvest discontinued its development activity several years ago. in april 2016, we sold the chilled water generation and distribution assets of wisvest, which provided chilled water services to the milwaukee regional medical center. wisvest no longer has significant operations. see note 3, dispositions, for more information . wecc was originally formed to invest in non-utility projects, such as low income housing developments. however, due to a focus on our regulated utility business, wecc sold many of its non-utility investments and no longer has significant operations. wbs is a wholly owned centralized service company that provides administrative and general support services to our regulated entities. wbs also provides certain administrative and support services to our nonregulated entities. pdl owns distributed renewable solar projects. as part of our asset management strategy, in 2016, pdl sold its natural gas-fired cogeneration facility and its landfill gas facility, and in 2018, pdl sold three of its distributed commercial and industrial solar projects. these facilities were not considered core to our operations. pdl's solar facilities rely on solar irradiance, a renewable energy resource. there is no market price risk associated with the fuel supply of these solar projects. however, production at these facilities can be intermittent due to the variability of solar irradiance. d. regulation we are a holding company and are subject to the requirements of the public utility holding company act of 2005 (puhca 2005). we also have various subsidiaries that meet the definition of a holding company under puhca 2005 and are also subject to its requirements. pursuant to the non-utility asset cap provisions of wisconsin's public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. however, among other items, the law exempts energy-related assets, including the generating plants constructed by we power and the other assets in our non-utility energy infrastructure segment, from being counted against the asset cap provided that they are employed in qualifying businesses. we report to the pscw annually our compliance with this law and provide supporting documentation to show that our non-utility assets are below the non-utility asset cap. regulated utility operations in addition to the specific regulations noted above and below, our utilities are also subject to regulations, where applicable, of the epa, the wdnr, the mdeq, the michigan department of natural resources, the illinois environmental protection agency, the united states army corps of engineers, the minnesota department of natural resources, and the minnesota pollution control agency. 2018 form 10-k 19 wec energy group, inc. table of contents rates our utilities' rates were regulated by the various commissions shown in the table below during 2018 . these commissions have general supervisory and regulatory powers over public utilities in their respective jurisdictions. regulated rates regulatory commission we retail electric, natural gas, and steam pscw retail electric mpsc wholesale power ferc wps retail electric and natural gas pscw wholesale power ferc wg retail natural gas pscw umerc retail electric and natural gas mpsc wholesale power ferc pgl retail natural gas icc nsg retail natural gas icc merc retail natural gas mpuc mgu retail natural gas mpsc embedded within our electric utilities' rates is an amount to recover fuel and purchased power costs. the wisconsin retail fuel rules require a utility to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, any under-collection or over-collection of fuel and purchased power costs that are outside of the utility's symmetrical fuel cost tolerance, which the pscw typically sets at plus or minus 2% of the utility's approved fuel and purchased power cost plan. the deferred fuel and purchased power costs are subject to an excess revenues test. if the utility's roe in a given year exceeds the roe authorized by the pscw, the recovery of under-collected fuel and purchased power costs would be reduced by the amount by which the utility's return exceeds the authorized amount. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers and our wholesale electric customers. our natural gas utilities operate under gcrms as approved by their respective state regulator. generally, the gcrms allow for a dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs. see note 1(d), operating revenues , for additional information on the significant mechanisms our utilities had in place in 2018 that allowed them to recover or refund changes in prudently incurred costs from rate case-approved amounts. we, wg, and wps are each subject to an earnings sharing mechanism through 2019. we and wg have been subject to the earnings sharing mechanism since january 2016, and wps adopted it in january 2018 pursuant to its settlement agreement with the pscw. see note 24, regulatory environment , for more information. for information on how rates are set for our regulated entities, see note 24, regulatory environment . orders from our respective regulators can be viewed at the following websites: regulatory commission website pscw https://psc.wi.gov/ icc https://www.icc.illinois.gov/ mpsc http://www.michigan.gov/mpsc/ mpuc http://mn.gov/puc/ ferc http://www.ferc.gov/ 2018 form 10-k 20 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the material and information contained on these websites are not intended to be a part of, nor are they incorporated by reference into, this annual report on form 10-k. the following table compares our utility operating revenues by regulatory jurisdiction for each of the three years ended december 31: 2018 2017 2016 (in millions) amount percent amount percent amount percent electric wisconsin $ 3,890.4 87.7 % $ 3,909.1 85.7 % $ 3,974.8 85.9 % michigan 152.4 3.4 % 145.9 3.2 % 175.0 3.8 % ferc wholesale 396.1 8.9 % 504.0 11.1 % 478.3 10.3 % total 4,438.9 100.0 % 4,559.0 100.0 % 4,628.1 100.0 % natural gas wisconsin 1,351.8 42.3 % 1,266.4 41.7 % 1,174.2 42.0 % illinois 1,400.0 43.8 % 1,355.5 44.6 % 1,242.2 44.4 % minnesota 289.8 9.1 % 272.6 9.0 % 249.4 8.9 % michigan 152.4 4.8 % 142.4 4.7 % 130.5 4.7 % total 3,194.0 100.0 % 3,036.9 100.0 % 2,796.3 100.0 % total utility operating revenues $ 7,632.9 $ 7,595.9 $ 7,424.4 electric transmission, capacity, and energy markets in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso operates bid-based energy markets. miso has been able to assume significant balancing area responsibilities such as frequency control and disturbance control. in miso, base transmission costs are currently being paid by load-serving entities located in the service territories of each miso transmission owner. the ferc has previously confirmed the use of the current transmission cost allocation methodology. certain additional costs for new transmission projects are allocated throughout the miso footprint. as part of miso, a market-based platform is used for valuing transmission congestion premised upon the lmp system that is used in certain northeastern and mid-atlantic states. the lmp system includes the ability to hedge transmission congestion costs through arrs and ftrs. arrs are allocated to market participants by miso, and ftrs are purchased through auctions. a new allocation and auction were completed for the period of june 1, 2018 , through may 31, 2019 . the resulting arr valuation and the secured ftrs are expected to mitigate our transmission congestion risk for that period. miso has an annual zonal resource adequacy requirement to ensure there is sufficient generation capacity to serve the miso market. to meet this requirement, capacity resources can be acquired through miso's annual capacity auction, bilateral contracts for capacity, or provided from generating or demand response resources. all of our capacity requirements during the planning year from june 1, 2018 , through may 31, 2019 were met. other electric regulations our electric utilities are subject to the federal power act and the corresponding regulations developed by certain federal agencies. the energy policy act amended the federal power act in 2005 to, among other things, make electric utility industry consolidation more feasible, authorize the ferc to review proposed mergers and the acquisition of generation facilities, change the ferc regulatory scheme applicable to qualifying cogeneration facilities, and modify certain other aspects of energy regulations and federal tax policies applicable to us. additionally, the energy policy act created an electric reliability organization to be overseen by the ferc, which established mandatory electric reliability standards and has the authority to levy monetary sanctions for failure to comply with these standards. we and wps are subject to act 141 in wisconsin, and we and umerc are subject to public acts 295 and 342 in michigan, which contain certain minimum requirements for renewable energy generation. 2018 form 10-k 21 wec energy group, inc. table of contents all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. other natural gas regulations almost all of the natural gas we distribute is transported to our distribution systems by interstate pipelines. the pipelines' transportation and storage services, including pgl's natural gas hub, are regulated by the ferc under the natural gas act and the natural gas policy act of 1978. in addition, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration and the state commissions are responsible for monitoring and enforcing requirements governing our natural gas utilities' safety compliance programs for our pipelines under the united states department of transportation regulations. these regulations include 49 code of federal regulations (cfr) part 191 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline; annual reports, incident reports, and safety-related condition reports), 49 cfr part 192 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards), and 49 cfr part 195 (transportation of hazardous liquids by pipeline). we are required to provide natural gas service and grant credit (with applicable deposit requirements) to customers within our service territories. we are generally not allowed to discontinue natural gas service during winter moratorium months to residential heating customers who do not pay their bills. federal and certain state governments have programs that provide for a limited amount of funding for assistance to low-income customers of our utilities. non-utility energy infrastructure operations the generation facilities constructed by wholly owned subsidiaries of we power are being leased on a long-term basis to we. environmental permits necessary for operating the facilities are the responsibility of the operating entity, we. we power received determinations from the ferc that upon the transfer of the facilities by lease to we, we power's subsidiaries would not be deemed public utilities under the federal power act and thus would not be subject to the ferc's jurisdiction. bluewater is regulated by the ferc under the natural gas act and the natural gas policy act of 1978. in addition, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration is responsible for monitoring and enforcing requirements governing bluewater's safety compliance programs for its pipelines under the united states department of transportation regulations. these regulations include 49 cfr parts 191, 192, and 195. given that bluewater is required to route some of its natural gas through canada, applicable reporting and licensing with the united states department of energy and the canadian national energy board are also required, along with routine reporting related to imports and exports. bishop hill iii and upstream, which was acquired in january 2019, are both subject to the ferc's regulation of wholesale energy under the federal power act. e. environmental compliance our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation of ghg emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, or wastewater discharges, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs. anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital requirements. for a discussion of matters related to manufactured gas plant sites and air and water quality, see note 22, commitments and contingencies . 2018 form 10-k 22 wec energy group, inc. table of contents f. employees as of december 31, 2018 , we had the following number of employees: total employees we 2,739 wps 1,189 wg 411 pgl 1,566 nsg 166 merc 221 mgu 149 wbs 1,437 total employees 7,878 as of december 31, 2018 , we had employees represented under labor agreements with the following bargaining units: number of employees expiration date of current labor agreement we local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 1,611 august 15, 2020 local 420 of international union of operating engineers 360 september 30, 2021 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america 114 october 31, 2021 local 510 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 75 october 31, 2020 total we 2,160 wps local 420 of international union of operating engineers 850 april 16, 2021 wg local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 81 august 15, 2020 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america 209 october 31, 2021 total wg 290 pgl local 18007 of utility workers union of america 990 april 30, 2023 local 18007(c) of utility workers union of america 92 july 31, 2021 total pgl 1,082 nsg local 2285 of international brotherhood of electrical workers (1) 121 june 30, 2019 merc local 31 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 43 may 31, 2020 local 49 of international union of operating engineers (2) 3 january 1, 2022 total merc 46 mgu local 12295 of united steelworkers of america 70 january 15, 2020 local 417 of utility workers union of america 25 february 15, 2022 total mgu 95 total represented employees 4,644 (1) we anticipate that local 2285 negotiations will begin in spring 2019 and will conclude before the expiration of the current agreement. (2) a three year contract was ratified between merc and the international union of operating engineers, local 49, on january 10, 2019. 2018 form 10-k 23 wec energy group, inc. table of contents item 1a. risk factors we are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the sec from time to time, when making an investment decision. risks related to legislation and regulation our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation and oversight. we are subject to significant state, local, and federal governmental regulation, including regulation by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. these regulations significantly influence our operating environment, may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers, and cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs. changes in regulations, interpretations of regulations, or the imposition of new regulations could also significantly impact us, including requiring us to change our business operations. many aspects of our operations are regulated and impacted by government regulation, including, but not limited to: the rates we charge our retail electric, natural gas, and steam customers; the authorized rates of return of our utilities; construction and operation of electric generating facilities and electric and natural gas distribution systems, including the ability to recover such costs; decommissioning generating facilities, the ability to recover the related costs, and continuing to recover the return on the carrying value of these facilities; wholesale power service practices; electric reliability requirements and accounting; participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market; standards of service; issuance of securities; short-term debt obligations; transactions with affiliates; and billing practices. failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to customer refunds, penalties, and other payments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the rates, including adjustments determined under riders, we are allowed to charge our customers for retail and wholesale services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. rate regulation provides us an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. in addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable roe. we defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery from or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. if recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses for our existing operations, have complied with all of their associated terms, and that our businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws. these permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. in addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal, state, and local agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. we cannot predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies. if we are unable to recover costs of complying with regulations or other associated costs in customer rates in a timely manner, or if we are unable to obtain, renew, or comply with these governmental permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, or licenses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we face significant costs to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. our operations are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions (including, but not limited to: co 2, methane, mercury, so 2 , and nox), water quality, wastewater discharges, and management of hazardous, toxic, and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant costs to comply with these environmental requirements, including costs associated with the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at our facilities. in addition, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. 2018 form 10-k 24 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the epa adopted and implemented (or is in the process of implementing) regulations governing the emission of nox, so 2 , fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the caa through the naaqs, the mercury and air toxics standards rule, the cpp, the cross-state air pollution rule, and other air quality regulations. in addition, the epa finalized regulations under the clean water act that govern cooling water intake structures at our power plants and revised the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants. the epa and the united states army corps of engineers (army corps) have also adopted a final rule that would expand traditional federal jurisdiction over navigable waters and related wetlands for permitting and other regulatory matters. however, this rule has been stayed, and the epa and the army corps have proposed revisions to it. we continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. in addition, as a result of the actions taken by the sitting president and federal executive branch since taking office in january 2017, as well as its announced future plans and other factors, there is uncertainty as to what capital expenditures or additional costs may ultimately be required to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level that could result in significant additional expenditures for our generation units or distribution systems, including, without limitation, costs to further limit ghg emissions from our operations; operating restrictions on our facilities; and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and compliance with rules regulating our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. any such regulation may also create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could affect the availability and/or cost of fossil fuels. as a result, certain of our coal-fired electric generating facilities have become uneconomical to maintain and operate, which has resulted in some of these units being retired or converted to an alternative type of fuel. for example, as part of our goal to retire approximately 1,800 mw of coal-fired generation by 2020, we retired the pleasant prairie power plant, pulliam power plant, and the jointly-owned edgewater unit 4 generating unit during 2018, representing approximately 1,500 mw, and are required to retire pipp by may 31, 2019. certain of our remaining coal-fired electric generating facilities may also be retired or converted in the future. if other generation facility owners in the midwest retire a significant number of older coal-fired generation facilities, a potential reduction in the region's capacity reserve margin below acceptable risk levels may result. this could impair the reliability of the grid in the midwest, particularly during peak demand periods. a reduction in available future capacity could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers' needs. our electric and natural gas utilities are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental impacts at certain of our current and former facilities and at third-party owned sites. we accrue liabilities and defer costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with our former manufactured gas plant sites. these costs include all costs incurred to date that we expect to recover, management's best estimates of future costs for investigation and remediation, related legal expenses, and are net of amounts recovered by or that may be recovered from insurance or other third parties. due to the potential for the imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future, the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, a change in conditions or the discovery of additional contamination, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate or could vary from the amounts currently accrued. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity and natural gas, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, has increased generally throughout the united states. in particular, personal injury, property damage, and other claims for damages alleged to have been caused by environmental impacts and alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. in addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of facilities that we previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during, or after the time we owned or operated these facilities. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 2018 form 10-k 25 wec energy group, inc. table of contents we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. management believes it is reasonably likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the existence and extent of climate change, and the role of human activity in it, will continue, with the potential for further regulation that affects our operations. in 2015, the epa issued a final rule regulating ghg emissions from existing generating units, referred to as the cpp, and final performance standards for modified and reconstructed generating units and new fossil-fueled power plants. in february 2016, the supreme court stayed the effectiveness of the cpp until disposition of certain litigation in the d.c. circuit court of appeals challenging the rule and, to the extent that further appellate review is sought, at the supreme court. in april 2017, pursuant to motions made by the epa, the d.c. circuit court of appeals ordered the challenges to the cpp, as well as related performance standards for new, reconstructed, and modified fossil-fueled power plants, be held in abeyance, which remains the case. in august 2018, the epa issued a proposed replacement rule for the cpp, the ace rule. the proposed ace rule would require the epa to develop emission guidelines for states to use to develop their individual state plans. the state plans would focus on reducing ghg emissions by improving the efficiency of fossil-fueled power plants. in december 2018, the epa proposed to revise the regulations related to new, modified, and reconstructed fossil-fueled power plants. we are continuing to analyze the ghg emission profile of our electric generation resources and to work with other stakeholders to determine the potential impacts to our operations of the cpp, the proposed ace rule, and federal ghg regulations in general. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with these and other federal regulations or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. ghg regulations that may be adopted in the future, at either the federal or state level, may cause our environmental compliance spending to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. in december 2016, michigan enacted act 342, which retains the 10% renewable energy portfolio requirement through 2018, increases the requirement to 12.5% for years 2019 through 2020, and increases the requirement to 15.0% for 2021. these regulations, as well as changes in the fuel markets and advances in technology, could make additional electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, may impact how we operate our existing fossil-fueled power plants and biomass facility, and could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions in the future. these regulations could also adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. in addition, our natural gas delivery systems and natural gas storage fields may generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair. fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane. co 2 is also a byproduct of natural gas consumption. as a result, future regulation of ghg emissions could increase the price of natural gas, restrict the use of natural gas, and adversely affect our ability to operate our natural gas facilities. a significant increase in the price of natural gas may increase rates for our natural gas customers, which could reduce natural gas demand. we also continue to monitor efforts by investors and other stakeholders to increase pressure on us and others to take more aggressive action to reduce future ghg emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases to less than two degrees celsius. these efforts could impact how we operate our electric generating units and natural gas facilities and lead to increased competition and regulation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. changes in federal income tax policy may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings. we and our subsidiaries have invested or will be investing in renewable energy generating facilities, several of which generate production tax credits and investment tax credits that we use to reduce our federal tax obligations. the amount of tax credits we earn depends on the level of electricity generated, the applicable tax credit rate, and the amount of the investment in qualifying property. if our tax credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a results of an irs audit or changes in tax law, we could owe tax liabilities for previously recognized tax credits that could significantly impact our earnings and cash flows. in addition, if corporate tax rate or policies are changed with future federal or state legislation, we may be required to take material charges against earnings. for example, the united states federal income tax legislation enacted in december 2017 significantly changed the united states internal revenue code, including taxation of united states corporations, by, among other things, reducing the federal corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, and altering the expensing of capital expenditures. parts of the tax legislation still remain unclear and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the treasury department and the irs, as well as state income tax authorities, and the tax legislation could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the tax legislation. in addition, the regulatory treatment of the impacts of the tax legislation will be subject to the discretion of the ferc and state public utility commissions. state 2018 form 10-k 26 wec energy group, inc. table of contents and local taxing authorities continue to evaluate the impact of federal income tax reform, and any changes on the state or local level could lessen or increase the impacts of the tax legislation. there is still uncertainty as to when or how credit rating agencies, capital markets, the ferc, or state public utility commissions will treat any additional impacts of the tax legislation. these impacts could subject us or any of our subsidiaries to further credit rating downgrades. it is unclear whether additional opportunities may evolve for us to manage the adverse impacts of the tax legislation. in addition, certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, could be negatively impacted by future rulings related to the tax legislation. in addition, the ferc and state public utility commissions continue to engage with our utility subsidiaries to determine how certain tax savings will be returned to ratepayers. in december 2017, our regulated utilities deferred the estimated tax benefits for return to ratepayers through bill credits or reductions in regulatory assets. we have received written orders from the mpsc, the mpuc, and the pscw addressing the refunding of certain of these tax benefits to ratepayers in michigan, minnesota, and wisconsin, respectively, and the icc has approved the vita in illinois. despite receiving these written orders, the amount of tax benefits we must return to ratepayers could change if state commissions take additional action. furthermore, if the amounts our regulators order our regulated utility subsidiaries to return to ratepayers exceeds the actual amount of tax savings realized, or our regulators require the tax savings to be applied in a manner other than we had expected, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. while our analysis and interpretation of the tax legislation is ongoing, based on our current evaluation, we do not expect the limitations on interest deductions to materially adversely affect our earnings per share. any amendments to the tax legislation or interpretations or implementing regulations by the treasury department and/or the irs contrary to our interpretation of the tax legislation could limit our ability to deduct the interest on some of our outstanding debt. there may be other material adverse effects resulting from the tax legislation that we have not yet identified. if we are unable to successfully take actions to manage any adverse impacts of the tax legislation, or if additional interpretations, regulations, amendments, or technical corrections exacerbate the adverse impacts of the tax legislation, the tax legislation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and on the value of investments in our debt securities and common stock, and could result in credit rating agencies placing our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings on negative outlook or further downgrading our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings. failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act could have a material effect on our results of operations and stock price. we are subject to reporting, disclosure control, and other obligations under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act (sox). sox contains provisions requiring our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. we have undertaken, or will undertake, a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize, and streamline our operations with technology, including, but not limited to, an enterprise resource planning system and a customer information and billing system. there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective because of the discovery of material weaknesses, with either our current controls and processes or with the implementation of new controls and processes around these new technologies. any failure to maintain effective internal controls or a determination by our independent registered public accounting firm that we have a material weakness in our internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports, cause a decline in the market price of our common stock, restrict our access to the capital markets, or subject us to investigations by the sec or other regulatory authorities. our electric utilities could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. our electric utilities are subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject our electric utilities to higher operating costs. if our electric utilities were ever found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. 2018 form 10-k 27 wec energy group, inc. table of contents provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act (holding company act), we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the holding company act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, the holding company act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors, and the public. this provision and other requirements of the holding company act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wec energy group. as a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. risks related to the operation of our business our operations are subject to risks arising from the reliability of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, natural gas infrastructure facilities, and other facilities, as well as the reliability of third-party transmission providers. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generation and natural gas and electric distribution facilities. the operation of these facilities involves many risks, including operator error and the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes. potential breakdown or failure may occur due to severe weather; catastrophic events (i.e., fires, earthquakes, explosions, tornadoes, floods, droughts, pandemic health events, etc.); significant changes in water levels in waterways; fuel supply or transportation disruptions; accidents; employee labor disputes; construction delays or cost overruns; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material, and/or labor; performance below expected levels; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; or cyber security intrusions. any of these events could lead to substantial financial losses. because our electric generation facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission facilities, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by events impacting their systems. unplanned outages at our power plants may reduce our revenues, cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. insurance, warranties, performance guarantees, or recovery through the regulatory process may not cover any or all of these lost revenues or increased expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to various conditions that can result in fluctuations in energy sales to customers, including customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas, varying weather conditions, and energy conservation efforts. our results of operations and cash flows are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas, which can vary greatly based upon: fluctuations in customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas. customer growth and energy use can be negatively impacted by population declines as well as economic factors in our service territories, including workforce reductions, stagnant wage growth, changing levels of support from state and local government for economic development, business closings, and reductions in the level of business investment. our electric and natural gas utilities are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. any economic downturn, disruption of financial markets, or reduced incentives by state government for economic development could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products or services. these risks could directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas as well as the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. we could also be exposed to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills. weather conditions . demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months when cooling and heating is necessary. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, milder temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season may result in lower revenues and net income. our customers' continued focus on energy conservation and ability to meet their own energy needs . our customers' use of electricity and natural gas has decreased as a result of continued individual conservation efforts, including the use of more energy 2018 form 10-k 28 wec energy group, inc. table of contents efficient technologies. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income and increases in energy prices. conservation of energy can be influenced by certain federal and state programs that are intended to influence how consumers use energy. for example, several states, including wisconsin and michigan, have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. as part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer growth and general economic conditions, weather, and customer energy conservation efforts, but risks still remain. any of these matters, as well as any regulatory delay in adjusting rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we are actively involved with several significant capital projects, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. we also expect to invest in renewable energy generating facilities as part of our generation reshaping plan and as part of our non-utility energy infrastructure segment. in addition, wbs continues to invest in technology and the development of software applications to support our utilities. achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties, some of which we will have limited or no control over, that could adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, the ability to adhere to established budgets and time frames; the availability of labor or materials at estimated costs; the ability of contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable laws or regulations; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy. in addition, certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. if construction of commission-approved projects should materially and adversely deviate from the schedules, estimates, and projections on which the approval was based, our regulators may deem the additional capital costs as imprudent and disallow recovery of them through rates, and otherwise available production tax credits and investment tax credits for renewable energy projects could be lost. to the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, tax credits are lost, or we (or third parties with whom we invest and/or partner) otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our (or their) capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. advances in technology could make our electric generating facilities less competitive. advances in new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption are ongoing and include renewable energy technologies, customer-oriented generation, energy storage devices, and energy efficiency technologies. we generate power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive than they were in the past. it is possible that legislation or regulations could be adopted supporting the use of these technologies. there is also a risk that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station power production. if these technologies become cost competitive and achieve economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses. our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to, cyber security intrusions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information. we have been subject to attempted cyber attacks from time to time, but these attacks have not had a material impact on our system or business operations. despite the implementation of security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to physical or cyber security intrusions caused by human error, vendor bugs, terrorist attacks, or other malicious acts. these threats against our generation facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, our information and technology systems, and network infrastructure, including that of third parties on which we rely, could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, purchase, or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. if our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached, and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform critical business functions, and data, including sensitive information, could be compromised. 2018 form 10-k 29 wec energy group, inc. table of contents we operate in an industry that requires the use of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which control an interconnected system of generation, distribution, and transmission systems shared with third parties. a successful physical or cyber security intrusion may occur despite our security measures or those that we require our vendors to take, which include compliance with reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards. successful cyber security intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage systems, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of service to customers. these intrusions may cause unplanned outages at our power plants, which may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. the risk of such intrusions may also increase our capital and operating costs as a result of having to implement increased security measures for protection of our information technology and infrastructure. our continued efforts to integrate, consolidate, and streamline our operations have also resulted in increased reliance on current and recently completed projects for technology systems, including an enterprise resource planning system, a customer information and billing system, automated meter reading systems, and other similar technological tools and initiatives. we implement procedures to protect our systems, but we cannot guarantee that the procedures we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data and systems are adequate to safeguard against all security breaches. the failure of any of these or other similarly important technologies, or our inability to support, update, expand, and/or integrate these technologies across our subsidiaries could materially and adversely impact our operations, diminish customer confidence and our reputation, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against these risks, and subject us to possible financial liability or increased regulation or litigation. our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, shareholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. security breaches may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons, and/or could cause us to become subject to significant litigation, costs, liability, fines, or penalties, any of which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations as well as our reputation with customers, shareholders, and regulators, among others. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such intrusions or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. we may also need to obtain additional insurance coverage related to the threat of such intrusions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions caused by these on-going threats to our assets and technology systems could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the costs of repairing damage to our facilities, operational disruptions, protecting personally identifiable information, and notifying impacted persons, as well as related legal claims, may also not be recoverable in rates, may exceed the insurance limits on our insurance policies, or, in some cases, may not be covered by insurance. transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. inherent in natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to us. the location of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. these activities may subject us to litigation and/or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations including, but not limited to, debt service, taxes, and other expenses, as well as pay dividends on our common stock, is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that are not required to pay any of our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for the payment of dividends on our common stock. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us depends on their earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, and general financial condition, as well as regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations 2018 form 10-k 30 wec energy group, inc. table of contents that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. in addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay amounts to us depends on any statutory, regulatory, and/or contractual restrictions and limitations applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain specified levels of debt or equity ratios, working capital, or other assets. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. we may fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations, including obligations under power purchase, natural gas supply, and transportation agreements, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, electricity, natural gas, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be required to replace the underlying commitment at current market prices or we may be unable to meet all of our customers' electric and natural gas requirements unless or until alternative supply arrangements are put in place. in such event, we may incur losses, and our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected. we have entered into several power purchase, natural gas supply, and transportation agreements with non-affiliated companies, and continue to look for additional opportunities to enter into these agreements. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the counterparties of their obligations under the power purchase, natural gas supply, and transportation agreements. although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more counterparties could fail to perform their obligations under these agreements. if this were to occur, we generally would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase, natural gas supply, or transportation agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers. to the extent these costs are not allowed to be reallocated by our regulators or there is any regulatory delay in adjusting rates, a customer default under these agreements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to fully use tax credits, net operating losses, and/or charitable contribution carryforwards. we have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax liability in the past through tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available under the applicable tax codes. we have not fully used the allowed tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions in our previous tax filings. we may not be able to fully use the tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available as carryforwards if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit their use. in addition, any future disallowance of some or all of those tax credits, net operating losses, or charitable contribution carryforwards as a result of legislation or an adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions could materially affect our tax obligations and financial results. we have recorded goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect financial results. we assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate a potential for impairment. if goodwill is deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur non-cash charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. at december 31, 2018 , our goodwill was $3,052.8 million . 2018 form 10-k 31 wec energy group, inc. table of contents risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to credit and capital markets to support our capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity, which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. our or our subsidiaries' access to the credit and capital markets could be limited, or our or our subsidiaries' cost of capital significantly increased, due to any of the following risks and uncertainties: a rating downgrade; an economic downturn or uncertainty; prevailing market conditions and rules; concerns over foreign economic conditions; changes in tax policy; changes in investment criteria of institutional investors; war or the threat of war; and the overall health and view of the utility and financial institution industries. if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, and could limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level. a downgrade in our or any of our subsidiaries' credit ratings could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact our and our subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, but not limited to, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. we or any of our subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of us, our utilities, or the utility industry has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. any downgrade by the rating agencies could: increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities; require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the pool of creditors; decrease funding sources by limiting our or our subsidiaries' access to the commercial paper market; limit the availability of adequate credit support for our subsidiaries' operations; and trigger collateral requirements in various contracts. see the risk factor titled "changes in federal income tax policy may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings" above for information about how the tax legislation could impact our or our subsidiaries' credits ratings. fluctuating commodity prices could negatively impact our electric and natural gas utility operations. our operating and liquidity requirements are impacted by changes in the forward and current market prices of natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy credits, and ancillary services. 2018 form 10-k 32 wec energy group, inc. table of contents our electric utilities burn natural gas in several of their electric generation plants and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. the cost of natural gas may increase because of disruptions in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution, international market conditions, the demand for natural gas, and the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility. for wisconsin retail electric customers, our utilities bear the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical 2% fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in their respective rate structures. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers and our wholesale electric customers. our natural gas utilities receive dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs from their natural gas customers. changes in commodity prices could result in: higher working capital requirements, particularly related to natural gas inventory, accounts receivable, and cash collateral postings; reduced profitability to the extent that lower revenues, increased bad debt, and interest expense are not recovered through rates; higher rates charged to our customers, which could impact our competitive position; reduced demand for energy, which could impact revenues and operating expenses; and shutting down of generation facilities if the cost of generation exceeds the market price for electricity. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we own and operate several coal-fired electric generating units. although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to protect against an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory levels will be adequate. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, we cannot assure that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal-fired units, which could lead to increased fuel costs. the increase in fuel costs could result in either reduced margins on net sales into the miso energy markets, a reduction in the volume of net sales into the miso energy markets, and/or an increase in net power purchases in the miso energy markets. there is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed, either of which could adversely affect our cash flows. the use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards to manage commodity price exposure. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of our utilities must be approved by the various state commissions, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. restructuring in the regulated energy industry and competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a negative impact on our business and revenues. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including michigan and illinois, have adopted retail choice. under michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. the law limits customer choice to 10% of our michigan retail load. the iron ore mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan is excluded from this cap. when a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. although illinois has adopted retail choice, there is currently little or no impact on the net income of our illinois utilities as they still 2018 form 10-k 33 wec energy group, inc. table of contents earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. it is uncertain whether retail choice might be implemented in wisconsin or minnesota. the ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. all market participants, including us, must submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes an lmp that reflects the market price for energy. we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining the stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that schedules energy and ancillary services at the same time as part of the energy market, allowing for more efficient use of generation assets in the miso energy markets. these market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the miso energy markets, and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. the ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers, and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter. technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. we currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. we may experience poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings due to changes in assumptions and market conditions. we have significant obligations related to pension and opeb plans. if we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors, including actual plan experience, changes made to the plans, and assumptions concerning the future. types of assumptions include earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and our required or voluntary contributions to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. in addition, medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. our funding requirements could be impacted by a decline in the market value of plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in demographics (including the number of retirements), or changes in life expectancy assumptions. in addition, we maintain rabbi trusts to fund our deferred compensation plans, which from time to time, hold equity and debt investments that are subject to market fluctuations. decreases in investment performance of these assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers and our contractors that are required to acquire and maintain insurance for our benefit. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources market risks and other significant risks, as well as note 1(n), fair value measurements , note 1(o), derivative instruments , and note 17, guarantees , for information concerning potential market risks to which we are exposed. 2018 form 10-k 73 wec energy group, inc. table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors and those identified below: factors affecting utility operations such as catastrophic weather-related damage, environmental incidents, unplanned facility outages and repairs and maintenance, and electric transmission or natural gas pipeline system constraints; factors affecting the demand for electricity and natural gas, including political developments, unusual weather, changes in economic conditions, customer growth and declines, commodity prices, energy conservation efforts, and continued adoption of distributed generation by customers; the timing, resolution, and impact of rate cases and negotiations, including recovery of deferred and current costs and the ability to earn a reasonable return on investment, and other regulatory decisions impacting our regulated operations; the impact of recent and future federal, state, and local legislative and/or regulatory changes, including changes in rate-setting policies or procedures, deregulation and restructuring of the electric and/or natural gas utility industries, transmission or distribution system operation, the approval process for new construction, reliability standards, pipeline integrity and safety standards, allocation of energy assistance, energy efficiency mandates, and tax laws, including the tax legislation as well as those that affect our ability to use production tax credits and investment tax credits; federal and state legislative and regulatory changes relating to the environment, including climate change and other environmental regulations impacting generation facilities and renewable energy standards, the enforcement of these laws and regulations, changes in the interpretation of regulations or permit conditions by regulatory agencies, and the recovery of associated remediation and compliance costs; the ability to obtain and retain customers, including wholesale customers, due to increased competition in our electric and natural gas markets from retail choice and alternative electric suppliers, and continued industry consolidation; the timely completion of capital projects within budgets and the ability to recover the related costs through rates; factors affecting the implementation of our generation reshaping plan, including related regulatory decisions, the cost of materials, supplies, and labor, and the feasibility of competing projects; the financial and operational feasibility of taking more aggressive action to further reduce ghg emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases; the risks associated with changing commodity prices, particularly natural gas and electricity, and the availability of sources of fossil fuel, natural gas, purchased power, materials needed to operate environmental controls at our electric generating facilities, or water supply due to high demand, shortages, transportation problems, nonperformance by electric energy or natural gas suppliers under existing power purchase or natural gas supply contracts, or other developments; 2019 form 10-k 1 wec energy group, inc. table of contents changes in credit ratings, interest rates, and our ability to access the capital markets, caused by volatility in the global credit markets, our capitalization structure, and market perceptions of the utility industry, us, or any of our subsidiaries; changes in the method of determining libor or the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate; costs and effects of litigation, administrative proceedings, investigations, settlements, claims, and inquiries; the direct or indirect effect on our business resulting from terrorist attacks and cyber security intrusions, as well as the threat of such incidents, including the failure to maintain the security of personally identifiable information, the associated costs to protect our utility assets, technology systems, and personal information, and the costs to notify affected persons to mitigate their information security concerns and to comply with state notification laws; restrictions imposed by various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances, that could prevent us from paying our common stock dividends, taxes, and other expenses, and meeting our debt obligations; the risk of financial loss, including increases in bad debt expense, associated with the inability of our customers, counterparties, and affiliates to meet their obligations; changes in the creditworthiness of the counterparties with whom we have contractual arrangements, including participants in the energy trading markets and fuel suppliers and transporters; the financial performance of atc and its corresponding contribution to our earnings; the investment performance of our employee benefit plan assets, as well as unanticipated changes in related actuarial assumptions, which could impact future funding requirements; factors affecting the employee workforce, including loss of key personnel, internal restructuring, work stoppages, and collective bargaining agreements and negotiations with union employees; advances in technology, and related legislation or regulation supporting the use of that technology, that result in competitive disadvantages and create the potential for impairment of existing assets; the risk associated with the values of goodwill and other intangible assets and their possible impairment; potential business strategies to acquire and dispose of assets or businesses, which cannot be assured to be completed timely or within budgets, and legislative or regulatory restrictions or caps on non-utility acquisitions, investments or projects, including the state of wisconsin's public utility holding company law; the timing and outcome of any audits, disputes, and other proceedings related to taxes; the ability to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with sox, while both integrating and continuing to consolidate our enterprise systems; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by standard-setting bodies; and other considerations disclosed elsewhere herein and in other reports we file with the sec or in other publicly disseminated written documents. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 2019 form 10-k 2 wec energy group, inc. table of contents part i item 1. business a. introduction in this report, when we refer to "wec energy group," "the company," "us," "we," "our," or "ours," we are referring to wec energy group, inc. and all of its subsidiaries. the term "utility" refers to the regulated activities of the electric and natural gas utility companies, while the term "non-utility" refers to the activities of the electric and natural gas companies that are not regulated, as well as we power and bluewater. the term "nonregulated" refers to activities at bishop hill iii, coyote ridge, upstream, wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, the pellc holding company, wispark, bostco, wisvest, wecc, wbs, and pdl. references to "notes" are to the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. for more information about our business operations, see note 21, segment information , and item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations. wec energy group, inc. we were incorporated in the state of wisconsin in 1981 and became a diversified holding company in 1986. we maintain our principal executive offices in milwaukee, wisconsin. on june 29, 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common shares of integrys and changed our name to wec energy group, inc. our wholly owned subsidiaries provide regulated natural gas and electricity, as well as nonregulated renewable energy. we have an approximately 60% equity interest in atc (an electric transmission company operating in illinois, michigan, minnesota, and wisconsin). at december 31, 2019 , we had six reportable segments, which are discussed below. for additional information about our reportable segments, see note 21, segment information . available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and any amendments to those reports are made available on our website, www.wecenergygroup.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the sec. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. b. utility energy operations wisconsin segment the wisconsin segment includes the electric and natural gas utility operations of we, wps, wg, and umerc. electric utility operations for the periods presented in this annual report on form 10-k, our electric utility operations included operations of we, wps and umerc. we generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in southeastern wisconsin (including the metropolitan milwaukee area), east central wisconsin, and northern wisconsin. we also served an iron ore mine customer, tilden, in the upper peninsula of michigan, through march 31, 2019 when tilden became a customer of umerc. wps generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in northeastern and central wisconsin. umerc generates and distributes electric energy to customers located in the upper peninsula of michigan. umerc began generating electricity when its new natural gas-fired generation achieved commercial operation on march 31, 2019. 2019 form 10-k 3 wec energy group, inc. table of contents operating revenues the following table shows electric utility operating revenues, including steam operations, for our wisconsin segment disaggregated by customer class for the year ended december 31, 2017. for information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, see note 4, operating revenues . (in millions) 2017 operating revenues residential $ 1,581.5 small commercial and industrial (1) 1,400.9 large commercial and industrial (1) 913.7 other 30.5 retail (1) 3,926.6 wholesale 233.4 resale 270.6 steam 23.3 other operating revenues (2) 105.1 total operating revenues (1) $ 4,559.0 (1) includes distribution sales for customers who have purchased power from an alternative electric supplier in michigan. (2) includes ssr revenues, amounts collected from (refunded to) customers for certain fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from costs included in rates, and other revenues, partially offset by revenues from tilden that were addressed in we's december 2019 wisconsin rate order. electric sales our electric energy deliveries included supply and distribution sales to retail, wholesale, and resale customers, and distribution sales to those customers who switched to an alternative electric supplier in the upper peninsula of michigan. in 2019 , retail revenues accounted for 90.4% of total electric operating revenues, wholesale revenues accounted for 4.4% of total electric operating revenues, and resale revenues accounted for 3.8% of total electric operating revenues. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations wisconsin segment contribution to operating income for information on mwh sales by customer class. our electric utilities are authorized to provide retail electric service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities, and in certain territories in the state of michigan pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities. our electric utilities buy and sell wholesale electric power by participating in the miso energy markets. the cost of our individual generation offered into the miso energy markets compared to our competitors affects how often our generating units are dispatched and whether we buy or sell power, based on our customers' needs. we provide wholesale electric service to various customers, including electric cooperatives, municipal joint action agencies, other investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities, and energy marketers. for more information, see e. regulation. the majority of our sales for resale are sold into an energy market operated by miso at market rates based on availability of our generation and market demand. retail fuel costs are reduced by the amount that revenue exceeds the costs of sales derived from these opportunity sales. steam sales we has a steam utility that generates, distributes, and sells steam supplied by the vapp to customers in metropolitan milwaukee, wisconsin. steam is used by customers for processing, space heating, domestic hot water, and humidification. annual sales of steam fluctuate from year to year based on system growth and variations in weather conditions. 2019 form 10-k 4 wec energy group, inc. table of contents electric sales forecast our service territory experienced a decline in weather-normalized retail electric sales in 2019 due primarily to reduced industrial sales. we currently forecast retail electric sales volumes, excluding the tilden mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan, to grow between 1% and 1.5% over the next five years, assuming normal weather. electric peak demand is expected to grow between flat and 0.5% over the next five years. customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 electric customers end of year residential 1,449.7 1,441.3 1,431.4 small commercial and industrial 174.6 173.2 172.2 large commercial and industrial 0.9 0.9 0.9 wholesale and other 2.7 2.7 2.6 total electric customers end of year 1,627.9 1,618.1 1,607.1 steam customers end of year 0.4 0.4 0.4 electric commercial and industrial retail customers we provide electric utility service to a diversified base of customers in industries such as metals and other manufacturing, paper, governmental, food products, health services, education, and retail. electric generation and supply mix our electric supply strategy is to provide our customers with energy from plants using a diverse fuel mix that is expected to balance a stable, reliable, and affordable supply of electricity with environmental stewardship. through our participation in the miso energy markets, we supply a significant amount of electricity to our customers from power plants that we own. we supplement our internally generated power supply with long-term power purchase agreements, including the point beach power purchase agreement discussed under the heading "power purchase commitments," and through spot purchases in the miso energy markets. we also sell excess power supply into the miso energy markets when it is economical, which reduces net fuel costs by offsetting costs of purchased power. all options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements. 2019 form 10-k 5 wec energy group, inc. table of contents the table below indicates our sources of electric energy supply as a percentage of sales for the three years ended december 31, as well as estimates for 2020 : estimate (1) actual 2020 2019 2018 2017 company-owned generation units: coal 32.5 % 36.3 % 44.7 % 48.5 % natural gas: combined cycle 24.3 % 26.8 % 19.7 % 16.5 % steam turbine 0.9 % 0.8 % 0.6 % 0.8 % natural gas/oil peaking units 4.4 % 0.9 % 1.7 % 1.1 % renewables (2) 4.2 % 4.4 % 4.1 % 4.1 % total company-owned generation units 66.3 % 69.2 % 70.8 % 71.0 % power purchase contracts: nuclear 19.0 % 19.8 % 18.6 % 17.7 % natural gas 2.7 % 1.8 % 1.5 % 1.3 % renewables (2) 2.5 % 2.0 % 2.4 % 2.9 % other 1.8 % 1.8 % 1.7 % 1.6 % total power purchase contracts 26.0 % 25.4 % 24.2 % 23.5 % purchased power from miso 7.7 % 5.4 % 5.0 % 5.5 % total purchased power 33.7 % 30.8 % 29.2 % 29.0 % total electric utility supply 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) the values included in the estimate assume a natural gas price based on the february 2020 nymex. (2) includes hydroelectric, biomass, and wind generation. electric generation facilities our generation portfolio is a mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to balance providing energy that is stable, reliable, and affordable with environmental stewardship. we own approximately 7,118 mw of generation capacity, including owned and jointly owned facilities. our facilities include coal-fired plants, natural gas-fired plants, and renewable generation. certain of our natural gas fired generation units have the ability to burn oil if natural gas is not available due to delivery constraints. for more information about our facilities, see item 2. properties. on march 31, 2019, we added to our electric generation portfolio when umerc's new natural gas-fired generation with a 187 mw rated capacity in the upper peninsula of michigan achieved commercial operation. see note 25, regulatory environment, for more information . reshaping our generation fleet the planned reshaping of our generation fleet balances reliability and customer cost with environmental stewardship. taken as a whole, this plan should reduce costs to customers, preserve fuel diversity, and lower carbon emissions. generation reshaping includes retiring older fossil fuel generation units, building state-of-the-art natural gas generation, and investing in cost-effective zero-carbon generation. in 2019, we met and exceeded our 2030 goal of reducing co 2 emissions by 40% below 2005 levels and are re-evaluating our longer-term co 2 reduction goals. we have already retired more than 1,800 mw of coal-fired generation since the beginning of 2018, and expect to continue adding natural gas-fired generating units and renewable generation, including utility-scale solar projects. the generation reshaping plan included the 2018 retirements of the pleasant prairie power plant, the pulliam power plant, and the jointly-owned edgewater unit 4 generating units as well as the march 2019 retirement of the presque isle power plant. for more information related to these power plant retirements, see note 6, property, plant, and equipment . 2019 form 10-k 6 wec energy group, inc. table of contents renewable generation our electric utilities meet a portion of their electric generation supply with various renewable energy resources, including wind, hydroelectric, biomass, and in the future, solar projects. this helps our electric utilities maintain compliance with renewable energy legislation. these renewable energy resources also help us maintain diversity in our generation portfolio, which effectively serves as a price hedge against future fuel costs, and will help mitigate the risk of potential unknown costs associated with any future carbon restrictions for electric generators. i n december 2018, we received approval from the pscw for the dedicated renewable energy resource pilot program, a program for customers who wish to access a large-scale renewable project located in wisconsin that we would operate. the project will contribute toward meeting we's peak demand, adding up to 150 mw of renewables to we's portfolio. solar i n december 2018, we received approval from the pscw for the solar now pilot program, which is expected to add 35 mw of solar generation to we's portfolio and will allow non-profit and government entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers to site solar arrays on their property. under this program, in 2019, we constructed 5 mw of solar generation and expects to construct more than double that amount in 2020. as part of our commitment to invest in zero-carbon generation, we have either filed for or received approval to invest in 300 mw of utility-scale solar within our wisconsin segment. in april 2019, wps, along with an unaffiliated utility, received approval from the pscw to acquire ownership interests in two utility-scale solar projects in wisconsin. badger hollow i is located in iowa county, wisconsin, and two creeks is located in manitowoc county, wisconsin. once constructed, wps will own 100 mw of the output of each project for a total of 200 mw. construction began at two creeks and badger hollow i in august 2019 and october 2019, respectively. commercial operation of both projects is targeted for the end of 2020. in august 2019, we, along with an unaffiliated utility, filed an application with the pscw for approval to acquire an ownership interest in a proposed solar project, badger hollow ii, that will be located in iowa county, wisconsin. at its meeting on february 20, 2020, the pscw approved the acquisition of this project. the approval is still subject to we's receipt and review of a final written order from the pscw. once constructed, we will own 100 mw of the output of this project. commercial operation of badger hollow ii is targeted for the end of 2021. electric system reliability the pscw requires us to maintain a planning reserve margin above our projected annual peak demand forecast to help ensure reliability of electric service to our customers. these planning reserve requirements are consistent with the miso calculated planning reserve margin. in 2008, the pscw established a 14.5% reserve margin requirement for long-term planning (planning years two through ten). for short-term planning (planning year one), the pscw requires wisconsin utilities to follow the planning reserve margin established by miso. miso has a 16.8% installed capacity reserve margin requirement for the planning year from june 1, 2019 , through may 31, 2020 , and an 18.0% installed capacity reserve margin requirement for the planning year from june 1, 2020 , through may 31, 2021 . miso's short-term reserve margin requirements experience year-to-year fluctuations, primarily due to changes in the generation resource mix and average forced outage rate of generation within the miso footprint. michigan legislation requires all electric providers to demonstrate to the mpsc that they have enough resources to serve the anticipated needs of their customers for a minimum of four consecutive planning years beginning in the upcoming planning year june 1, 2020 , through may 31, 2021 . the mpsc has established future planning reserve margin requirements based on the same study conducted by miso that determines the short-term reserve margin requirements. in both of our wisconsin and michigan jurisdictions, we have adequate capacity through company-owned generation units and power purchase contracts to meet the miso calculated planning reserve margin during the current planning year. we also fully anticipate that we will have adequate capacity to meet the planning reserve margin requirements for the upcoming planning year in both jurisdictions. 2019 form 10-k 7 wec energy group, inc. table of contents fuel and purchased power costs our retail electric rates in wisconsin are established by the pscw and include base amounts for fuel and purchased power costs. the electric fuel rules set by the pscw allow us to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, under- or over-collections of actual fuel and purchased power costs that exceed a 2% price variance from the costs included in the rates charged to customers. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers. for more information about the fuel rules, see e. regulation. our average fuel and purchased power costs per mwh by fuel type were as follows for the years ended december 31: 2019 2018 2017 coal $ 22.77 $ 23.54 $ 23.05 natural gas combined cycle 19.55 21.69 22.65 natural gas/oil peaking units 51.80 49.06 53.91 biomass 102.99 97.33 118.76 purchased power 42.53 42.85 42.12 we and wps purchase coal under long-term contracts, which helps with price stability. in the past, coal and associated transportation services were exposed to volatility in pricing due to changing domestic and world-wide demand for coal and diesel fuel. we and wps have pscw approval for a hedging program to moderate this volatility exposure. this program allows them to hedge, over a 36-month period, up to 75% of their potential risks related to rail transportation fuel surcharge exposure. the results of this hedging program, when used, are reflected in the average costs of purchased power. we purchase natural gas for our plants on the spot market from natural gas marketers, utilities, and producers, and we arrange for transportation of the natural gas to our plants. we have firm and interruptible transportation, as well as balancing and storage agreements, intended to support our plants' variable usage. we and wps also have pscw approval for a hedging program to moderate volatility related to natural gas price risk. this program allows them to hedge, over a 36-month period, up to 75% of their estimated natural gas use for electric generation. the results of this hedging program are reflected in the average costs of natural gas. coal supply we diversify the coal supply for our electric generating facilities and jointly-owned plants by purchasing coal from several mines in wyoming and pennsylvania, as well as from various other states. for 2020 , all of our total projected coal requirements of 10.1 million tons are contracted under fixed-price contracts. see note 23, commitments and contingencies, for more information on amounts of coal purchases and coal deliveries under contract. the annual tonnage amounts contracted for the next three years are as follows. we have not entered into any coal contracts for years after 2022. (in thousands) annual tonnage 2020 10,020 2021 4,640 2022 2,100 coal deliveries all of our 2020 coal requirements are expected to be shipped by our owned or leased unit trains under existing transportation agreements. the unit trains transport the coal for electric generating facilities from mines in wyoming and pennsylvania. additional small volume agreements may also be used to supplement the normal coal supply for our facilities. power purchase commitments we enter into short and long-term power purchase commitments to meet a portion of our anticipated electric energy supply needs. our power purchase commitments with unaffiliated parties are 1,387 mw for 2020, 1,379 mw for 2021, and 1,133 mw per year for 2022 through 2024, which exclude planning capacity purchases. these amounts include 1,033 mw per year related to a long-term power purchase agreement for electricity generated by point beach. as part of our generation reshaping plan, we recently retired 2019 form 10-k 8 wec energy group, inc. table of contents some of our older, less efficient coal-fired generation. to procure additional planning capacity, we purchased capacity from the miso annual auction to ensure that we maintain our compliance with planning reserve requirements as established by the pscw, mpsc, and miso. natural gas utility operations we, wg, and wps are authorized to provide retail natural gas distribution service in designated territories in the state of wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits and boundary agreements with other utilities. our wisconsin natural gas utilities operate throughout the state of wisconsin, including the city of milwaukee and surrounding areas, northeastern wisconsin, and in large areas of both central and western wisconsin. in addition, umerc is authorized to provide retail natural gas distribution service in designated territories in the upper peninsula of michigan. our wisconsin segment natural gas utilities provide service to residential, commercial and industrial, and transportation customers. major industries served include governmental, food products, paper, education, and metals manufacturing. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations wisconsin segment contribution to operating income for information on natural gas sales volumes by customer class in wisconsin and the upper peninsula of michigan. operating revenues the following table shows natural gas utility operating revenues for our wisconsin segment disaggregated by customer class for the year ended december 31, 2017 . for information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, see note 4, operating revenues . (in millions) 2017 operating revenues residential $ 809.3 commercial and industrial 395.5 total retail revenues 1,204.8 transport 72.6 other operating revenues * (7.2 ) total operating revenues $ 1,270.2 * includes amounts refunded to customers for purchased gas adjustment costs. natural gas sales forecast our combined wisconsin service territories experienced growth in weather-normalized retail natural gas deliveries (excluding natural gas deliveries for electric generation) in 2019 due to customer growth. we currently forecast retail natural gas delivery volumes to grow at a rate between 0.5% and 1.0% over the next five years, assuming normal weather. customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 customers end of year residential 1,339.6 1,329.6 1,318.3 commercial and industrial 131.5 130.6 129.7 transport 3.2 3.0 2.8 total customers 1,474.3 1,463.2 1,450.8 natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we have been able to meet our contractual obligations with both our suppliers and our customers. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 23, commitments and contingencies . 2019 form 10-k 9 wec energy group, inc. table of contents pipeline capacity and storage the interstate pipelines serving wisconsin originate in major natural gas producing areas of north america: the oklahoma and texas basins, western canada, and the rocky mountains. we have contracted for long-term firm capacity from a number of these sources. this strategy reflects management's belief that overall supply security is enhanced by geographic diversification of the supply portfolio. due to variations in natural gas usage in wisconsin, we have also contracted for substantial underground storage capacity, primarily in michigan. we target storage inventory levels at approximately 40% of forecasted demand for november through march. diversity of natural gas supply enables us to manage significant changes in demand and to optimize our overall natural gas supply and capacity costs. we generally inject natural gas into storage during the spring and summer months and withdraw it in the winter months. in june 2017, we completed the acquisition of bluewater. bluewater owns natural gas storage facilities in michigan that provide approximately one-third of the current storage needs for our wisconsin natural gas utilities. see note 2, acquisitions, for more information on this transaction. we hold daily transportation and storage capacity entitlements with interstate pipeline companies as well as other service providers under varied-length long-term contracts. natural gas pipeline capacity and storage and natural gas supplies under contract can be resold in secondary markets. peak or near-peak demand generally occurs only a few times each year. the secondary markets facilitate utilization of capacity and supply during times when the contracted capacity and supply are in excess of utility demand. the proceeds from these transactions are passed through to customers, subject to our approved gcrms. for information on the gcrms, see note 1(d), operating revenues . to ensure a reliable supply of natural gas during peak winter conditions, we have lng and propane facilities located within our distribution system. these facilities are typically utilized during extreme demand conditions to ensure reliable supply to our customers. in addition to their existing facilities, we and wg each plan to construct an additional lng facility. subject to pscw approval, each facility would provide approximately one billion cubic feet of natural gas supply to meet anticipated peak demand without requiring the construction of additional interstate pipeline capacity. commercial operation of the lng facilities is targeted for the end of 2023. combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of natural gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. our wisconsin segment natural gas utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 34.1 million therms for the 2019 through 2020 heating season. our wisconsin segment natural gas utilities' peak daily send-out during 2019 was 26.4 million therms on january 30, 2019 . natural gas supply we have contracts with suppliers for natural gas acquired in the chicago, illinois market hub and in the producing areas discussed above. the pricing of the term contracts is based upon first of the month indices. we expect to continue to make natural gas purchases in the spot market as price and other circumstances dictate. we have supply relationships with a number of sellers from whom we purchase natural gas in the spot market. hedging natural gas supply prices we, wps, and wg have pscw approval to hedge up to 60% of planned winter demand and up to 15% of planned summer demand using a mix of nymex-based natural gas options and futures contracts. these approvals allow these companies to pass 100% of the hedging costs (premiums, brokerage fees, and losses) and proceeds (gains) to customers through their respective gcrms. to the extent that opportunities develop and physical supply operating plans are supportive, we, wps, and wg also have pscw approval to utilize nymex-based natural gas derivatives to capture favorable forward-market price differentials. these approvals provide for 100% of the related proceeds to accrue to these companies' respective gcrms. 2019 form 10-k 10 wec energy group, inc. table of contents illinois segment our illinois segment includes the natural gas utility operations of pgl and nsg. pgl and nsg, both illinois corporations, began operations in 1855 and 1900, respectively. our customers are located in chicago and the northern suburbs of chicago. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations illinois segment contribution to operating income for information on natural gas sales volumes by customer class. illinois utilities operating statistics operating revenues the following table shows natural gas operating revenues for our illinois utilities disaggregated by customer class for the year ended december 31, 2017 . for information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, see note 4, operating revenues . (in millions) 2017 operating revenues residential $ 934.8 commercial and industrial 156.7 total retail revenues 1,091.5 transport 246.9 other operating revenues 17.1 total operating revenues $ 1,355.5 customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 customers end of year residential 870.6 863.2 849.8 commercial and industrial 71.8 72.1 72.9 transport 88.7 97.5 107.5 total customers 1,031.1 1,032.8 1,030.2 natural gas supply, pipeline capacity, and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 23, commitments and contingencies . pipeline capacity and storage we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having multiple pipelines that serve our natural gas service territory benefits our customers by improving reliability, providing access to a diverse supply of natural gas, and fostering competition among these service providers. these benefits can lead to favorable conditions for our illinois utilities when negotiating new agreements for transportation and storage services. we own a 38.8 bcf storage field (manlove field in central illinois) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. storage allows us to manage significant changes in daily natural gas demand and to purchase steady levels of natural gas on a year-round basis, which provides a hedge against supply cost volatility. we also own a natural gas pipeline system that connects manlove field to chicago and nine major interstate pipelines. these assets are directed primarily to serving rate-regulated retail customers and are included in our regulatory rate base. we also use a portion of these company-owned storage and pipeline assets as a natural gas hub, which consists of providing transportation and storage services in interstate commerce to our wholesale customers. customers deliver natural gas to us for storage through an injection into the storage reservoir, and we return the natural gas to the customers under an agreed schedule through a withdrawal from the storage 2019 form 10-k 11 wec energy group, inc. table of contents reservoir. title to the natural gas does not transfer to us. we recognize service fees associated with the natural gas hub services provided to wholesale customers. these service fees reduce the cost of natural gas and services charged to retail customers in rates. natural gas pipeline capacity and storage and natural gas supplies under contract can be resold in secondary markets. peak or near-peak demand generally occurs only a few times each year. the secondary markets facilitate utilization of capacity and supply during times when the contracted capacity and supply are in excess of utility demand. the proceeds from these transactions are passed through to customers, subject to our approved gcrms. for information on the gcrms, see note 1(d), operating revenues . combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of natural gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. our illinois utilities' forecasted design peak-day throughput is 26.2 million therms for the 2019 through 2020 heating season. our illinois utilities' peak daily send-out during 2019 was 22.6 million therms on january 30, 2019 . natural gas supply our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, peak-shaving facilities, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. hedging natural gas supply prices our illinois utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. their hedging programs are reviewed by the icc as part of the annual purchased gas adjustment reconciliation. they hedge between 25% and 50% of natural gas purchases, with a target of 37.5%. natural gas system modernization program pgl is continuing work on the smp, a project to replace approximately 2,000 miles of chicago's aging natural gas pipeline infrastructure that began in 2011. pgl currently recovers these costs through a surcharge on customer bills pursuant to an icc approved qip rider, which is in effect through 2023. for information on regulatory proceedings related to the smp, see note 25, regulatory environment . other states segment our other states segment includes the natural gas utility operations of merc and mgu. merc serves customers in various cities and communities throughout minnesota, and mgu serves customers in southern and western michigan. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations other states segment contribution to operating income for information on natural gas sales volumes by customer class for this segment. other states utilities operating statistics operating revenues the following table shows natural gas operating revenues for our other states utilities disaggregated by customer class for the year ended december 31, 2017 . for information about our operating revenues disaggregated by customer class for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, see note 4, operating revenues . (in millions) 2017 operating revenues residential $ 220.2 commercial and industrial 123.9 total retail revenues 344.1 transport 31.4 other operating revenues 35.7 total operating revenues $ 411.2 2019 form 10-k 12 wec energy group, inc. table of contents customers year ended december 31 (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 customers end of year residential 360.8 356.5 353.0 commercial and industrial 35.0 34.9 34.5 transport 24.7 24.7 24.2 total customers 420.5 416.1 411.7 natural gas supply, pipeline capacity and storage we manage portfolios of natural gas supply contracts, storage services, and pipeline transportation services designed to meet varying customer use patterns with safe, reliable natural gas supplies at the best value. for more information on our natural gas utility supply and transportation contracts, see note 23, commitments and contingencies . pipeline capacity and storage we own a storage field (partello in michigan) and contract with various other underground storage service providers for additional storage services. we contract with local distribution companies and interstate pipelines to purchase firm transportation services. we believe that having diverse capacity and storage benefits our customers. natural gas pipeline capacity and storage and natural gas supplies under contract can be resold in secondary markets. peak or near-peak demand generally occurs only a few times each year. the secondary markets facilitate utilization of capacity and supply during times when the contracted capacity and supply are in excess of utility demand. the proceeds from these transactions are passed through to customers, subject to our approved gcrms. for information on the gcrms, see note 1(d), operating revenues . combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak-day and seasonal demand. forecasted design peak-day throughput for our other states utilities is 8.7 million therms for the 2019 through 2020 heating season. our other states utilities' peak daily send-out during 2019 was 8.4 million therms on january 30, 2019 . natural gas supply our natural gas supply requirements are met through a combination of fixed-price purchases, index-priced purchases, contracted and owned storage, and natural gas supply call options. we contract for fixed-term firm natural gas supply each year to meet the demand of firm system sales customers. to supplement natural gas supply and manage risk, we purchase additional natural gas supply on the monthly and daily spot markets. hedging natural gas supply prices our other states utilities further reduce their supply cost volatility through the use of financial instruments, such as commodity futures, swaps, and options as part of their hedging programs. merc has mpuc approval to hedge up to 30% of planned winter demand using nymex financial instruments. mgu has mpsc approval to hedge up to 20% of its planned annual purchases using nymex financial instruments. general seasonality electric utility operations wisconsin segment our electric utility sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions. we sell more electricity during the summer months because of the residential cooling load. we continue to upgrade our electric distribution system, including substations, transformers, and lines, to meet the demand of our customers. our generating plants performed as expected during the 2019 form 10-k 13 wec energy group, inc. table of contents warmest periods of the summer, and all power purchase commitments under firm contract were received. during this period, our electric utilities did not require public appeals for conservation. however, during the polar vortex in the first quarter of 2019 we curtailed electric service to certain non-firm customers at miso's request, in response to wide-spread regional power supply issues in miso. these non-firm customers receive a rate credit in return for agreeing to occasional service interruptions. wps also had service curtailments for economic interruptions during this period. economic interruptions are declared during times in which the price of electricity in the regional market exceeds the cost of operating the company's peaking generation. during this time, interruptible customers can choose to continue using electricity at a price based on wholesale market prices. natural gas utility operations wisconsin, illinois, and other states segments since the majority of our customers use natural gas for heating, customer use is sensitive to weather and is generally higher during the winter months. accordingly, we are subject to some variations in earnings and working capital throughout the year as a result of changes in weather. the effect on earnings from these changes in weather are reduced by decoupling mechanisms included in the rates of pgl, nsg, and merc. these mechanisms differ by state and allow the utilities to recover or refund the differences between actual and authorized margins for certain customer classes. our natural gas utilities' working capital needs are met by cash generated from operations and debt (both long-term and short-term). the seasonality of natural gas revenues causes the timing of cash collections to be concentrated from january through june. a portion of the winter natural gas supply needs is typically purchased and stored from april through november. also, planned capital spending on our natural gas distribution facilities is concentrated in april through november. because of these timing differences, the cash flow from customers is typically supplemented with temporary increases in short-term borrowings (from external sources) during the late summer and fall. short-term debt is typically reduced over the january through june period. competition electric utility operations wisconsin segment our electric utilities face competition from various entities and other forms of energy sources available to customers, including self-generation by customers and alternative energy sources. our electric utilities compete with other utilities for sales to municipalities and cooperatives as well as with other utilities and marketers for wholesale electric business. natural gas utility operations wisconsin, illinois, and other states segments our natural gas utilities also face varying degrees of competition from other entities and other forms of energy available to consumers. many large commercial and industrial customers have the ability to switch between natural gas and alternative fuels. in addition, the majority of our natural gas customers have the opportunity to choose a natural gas supplier other than us. our natural gas utilities offer transportation services for customers that elect to purchase natural gas directly from a third-party supplier. we continue to earn distribution revenues from these transportation customers for their use of our distribution systems to transport natural gas to their facilities. as such, the loss of revenue associated with the cost of natural gas that our transportation customers purchase from third-party suppliers has little impact on our net income, as it is offset by an equal reduction to natural gas costs. for more information on competition in each of our service territories, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources competitive markets. c. electric transmission segment atc is a regional transmission company that owns, maintains, monitors, and operates electric transmission systems in wisconsin, michigan, illinois, and minnesota. atc is expected to provide comparable service to all customers, including we, wps, and umerc, and to support effective competition in energy markets without favoring any market participant. atc is regulated by the ferc for all rate terms and conditions of service and is a transmission-owning member of miso. miso maintains operational control of atc's transmission system, and we, wps, and umerc are non-transmission owning members and customers of miso. as of december 31, 2019 , our ownership interest in atc was approximately 60%. in addition, we owned approximately 75% of atc holdco, a separate entity formed in december 2016 to invest in transmission-related projects outside of atc's traditional footprint. see note 20, investment in transmission affiliates, for more information . 2019 form 10-k 14 wec energy group, inc. table of contents in november 2019, the ferc issued an order related to the methodology used to calculate the base roe for all miso transmission owners, including atc. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources other matters american transmission company allowed return on equity complaints, for more information. d. non-utility operations non-utility energy infrastructure segment the non-utility energy infrastructure segment includes we power, which owns and leases generating facilities to we; bluewater, which owns underground natural gas storage facilities in michigan; and weci, which holds our ownership interests in the bishop hill iii, upstream, and coyote ridge wind generating facilities. see item 2. properties, for more information on our non-utility energy infrastructure facilities. w.e. power, llc we power, through wholly owned subsidiaries, designed and built approximately 2,500 mw of generation in wisconsin. this generation is made up of capacity from the ergs units, er 1 and er 2, which were placed in service in february 2010 and january 2011, respectively, and the pwgs units, pwgs 1 and pwgs 2, which were placed in service in july 2005 and may 2008, respectively. two unaffiliated entities collectively own approximately 17%, or approximately 211 mw, of er 1 and er 2. we power's share of the ergs units and both pwgs units are being leased to we under long-term leases (the ergs units have 30-year leases and the pwgs units have 25-year leases), and are positioned to provide a significant portion of our future generation needs. because of the significant investment necessary to construct these generating units, we constructed the plants under wisconsin's leased generation law, which allows a non-utility affiliate to construct an electric generating facility and lease it to the public utility. the law allows a public utility that has entered into a lease approved by the pscw to recover fully in its retail electric rates that portion of any payments under the lease that the pscw has allocated to the public utility's wisconsin retail electric service, and all other costs that are prudently incurred in the public utility's operation and maintenance of the electric generating facility allocated to the utility's wisconsin retail electric service. in addition, the pscw may not modify or terminate a lease it has approved under the leased generation law except as specifically provided in the lease or the pscw's order approving the lease. this law effectively created regulatory certainty in light of the significant investment being made to construct the units. all four units were constructed under leases approved by the pscw. we are recovering our costs of these units, including subsequent capital additions, through lease payments that are billed from we power to we and then recovered in we's rates as authorized by the pscw and the ferc. under the lease terms, our return is calculated using a 12.7% roe and the equity ratio is assumed to be 55% for the ergs units and 53% for the pwgs units. bluewater natural gas holding, llc bluewater, located in michigan, provides natural gas storage and hub services for our wisconsin natural gas utilities. we, wps, and wg have entered into long-term service agreements for natural gas storage with a wholly owned subsidiary of bluewater. wec infrastructure llc at december 31, 2019, our non-utility energy infrastructure segment included weci's ownership interests in the three wind generating facilities reflected in the table below. name ownership interest upstream (1) 80.0 % bishop hill iii 90.0 % coyote ridge (2) 80.0 % (1) in february 2020, weci signed an agreement to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in upstream. (2) coyote ridge achieved commercial operation on december 20, 2019. 2019 form 10-k 15 wec energy group, inc. table of contents bishop hill iii and coyote ridge have long-term offtake agreements with unaffiliated third parties for the sale of all the energy they produce. in addition, upstream's revenue is substantially fixed over a 10-year period through an agreement with an unaffiliated third party. under the tax legislation, all of these investments qualify for production tax credits and 100% bonus depreciation. weci is entitled to the tax benefits of each facility in proportion to its ownership interest, with the exception of coyote ridge. weci is entitled to 99% of the tax benefits of coyote ridge for the first 11 years of commercial operation, after which weci will be entitled to tax benefits equal to its ownership interest. weci recognizes production tax credits as power is generated over 10 years. in august 2019, weci signed an agreement to acquire an 80% ownership interest in thunderhead, a 300 mw wind generating facility under construction in nebraska. in addition, in january 2020, weci signed an agreement to acquire an 80% ownership interest in blooming grove, a 250 mw wind generating facility under construction in illinois. in february 2020, weci amended these agreements to acquire an additional 10% ownership interest in both thunderhead and blooming grove. under the tax legislation, weci's investments in thunderhead and blooming grove are expected to qualify for production tax credits and 100% bonus depreciation. see note 2, acquisitions , for more information on these wind generating facilities. corporate and other segment the corporate and other segment includes the operations of the wec energy group holding company, the integrys holding company, and the pellc holding company, as well as the operations of wispark, bostco (prior to the sale of substantially all of its remaining assets in the first quarter of 2017 and its dissolution in october 2018), wbs, and pdl. see note 3, dispositions, for more information on the sale of bostco's assets and certain assets of pdl. this segment also includes wisvest and wecc, which no longer have significant operations. wispark develops and invests in real estate, primarily in southeastern wisconsin. wispark had $32.9 million in real estate holdings at december 31, 2019 . wbs is a wholly owned centralized service company that provides administrative and general support services to our regulated entities. wbs also provides certain administrative and support services to our nonregulated entities. pdl owns distributed renewable solar projects. as part of our asset management strategy, in 2019, pdl sold its remaining four distributed commercial and industrial solar projects. see note 3, dispositions, for more information on these sales. these facilities were not considered core to our operations. pdl still owns a portfolio of residential solar systems. e. regulation we are a holding company and are subject to the requirements of the puhca 2005. we also have various subsidiaries that meet the definition of a holding company under the puhca 2005 and are also subject to its requirements. pursuant to the non-utility asset cap provisions of wisconsin's public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. however, among other items, the law exempts energy-related assets, including the generating plants constructed by we power and the other assets in our non-utility energy infrastructure segment, from being counted against the asset cap provided that they are employed in qualifying businesses. we report to the pscw annually on our compliance with this law and provide supporting documentation to show that our non-utility assets are below the non-utility asset cap. regulated utility operations in addition to the specific regulations noted above and below, our utilities are subject to various other regulations, which primarily consist of regulations, where applicable, of the epa; the wdnr; the idnr; the iepa; the michigan department of environment, great lakes, and energy (previously michigan department of environmental quality); the michigan department of natural resources; the united states army corps of engineers; the minnesota department of natural resources; and the minnesota pollution control agency. 2019 form 10-k 16 wec energy group, inc. table of contents rates our utilities' rates were regulated by the various commissions shown in the table below during 2019 . these commissions have general supervisory and regulatory powers over public utilities in their respective jurisdictions. regulated rates regulatory commission we retail electric, natural gas, and steam pscw retail electric * mpsc wholesale power ferc wps retail electric and natural gas pscw wholesale power ferc wg retail natural gas pscw umerc retail electric and natural gas mpsc wholesale power ferc pgl retail natural gas icc nsg retail natural gas icc merc retail natural gas mpuc mgu retail natural gas mpsc * tilden, an iron-ore mine in the upper peninsula of michigan, was a customer of we through march 31, 2019. tilden became a customer of umerc when umerc's new natural gas-fired generation in the upper peninsula began commercial operation. as a result, we no longer has any retail customers in michigan and its retail electric rates were not regulated by the mpsc after march 31, 2019. see note 25, regulatory environment , for more information on the formation of umerc. embedded within our electric utilities' rates is an amount to recover fuel and purchased power costs. the wisconsin retail fuel rules require a utility to defer, for subsequent rate recovery or refund, any under-collection or over-collection of fuel and purchased power costs that are outside of the utility's symmetrical fuel cost tolerance, which the pscw typically sets at plus or minus 2% of the utility's approved fuel and purchased power cost plan. the deferred fuel and purchased power costs are subject to an excess revenues test. if the utility's roe in a given year exceeds the roe authorized by the pscw, the recovery of under-collected fuel and purchased power costs would be reduced by the amount by which the utility's return exceeds the authorized amount. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers and our wholesale electric customers. our natural gas utilities operate under gcrms as approved by their respective state regulator. generally, the gcrms allow for a dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs. see note 1(d), operating revenues , for additional information on the significant mechanisms our utilities had in place in 2019 that allowed them to recover or refund changes in prudently incurred costs from rate case-approved amounts. we, wps, and wg are each subject to an earnings sharing mechanism. we and wg have been subject to an earnings sharing mechanism since january 2016, and wps adopted one in january 2018 pursuant to its settlement agreement with the pscw. see note 25, regulatory environment , for more information. 2019 form 10-k 17 wec energy group, inc. table of contents for information on how rates are set for our regulated entities, see note 25, regulatory environment . orders from our respective regulators can be viewed at the following websites: regulatory commission website pscw https://psc.wi.gov/ icc https://www.icc.illinois.gov/ mpsc http://www.michigan.gov/mpsc/ mpuc http://mn.gov/puc/ ferc http://www.ferc.gov/ the material and information contained on these websites are not intended to be a part of, nor are they incorporated by reference into, this annual report on form 10-k. the following table compares our utility operating revenues by regulatory jurisdiction for each of the three years ended december 31: 2019 2018 2017 (in millions) amount percent amount percent amount percent electric wisconsin $ 3,807.4 88.2 % $ 3,890.4 87.7 % $ 3,909.1 85.7 % michigan 142.6 3.3 % 152.4 3.4 % 145.9 3.2 % ferc wholesale 367.6 8.5 % 396.1 8.9 % 504.0 11.1 % total 4,317.6 100.0 % 4,438.9 100.0 % 4,559.0 100.0 % natural gas wisconsin 1,325.3 42.6 % 1,351.8 42.3 % 1,266.4 41.7 % illinois 1,357.1 43.6 % 1,400.0 43.8 % 1,355.5 44.6 % minnesota 281.5 9.0 % 289.8 9.1 % 272.6 9.0 % michigan 148.7 4.8 % 152.4 4.8 % 142.4 4.7 % total 3,112.6 100.0 % 3,194.0 100.0 % 3,036.9 100.0 % total utility operating revenues $ 7,430.2 $ 7,632.9 $ 7,595.9 electric transmission, capacity, and energy markets in connection with its status as a ferc-approved rto, miso operates bid-based energy markets. miso has been able to assume significant balancing area responsibilities such as frequency control and disturbance control. in miso, base transmission costs are currently being paid by load-serving entities located in the service territories of each miso transmission owner. the ferc has previously confirmed the use of the current transmission cost allocation methodology. certain additional costs for new transmission projects are allocated throughout the miso footprint. as part of miso, a market-based platform is used for valuing transmission congestion premised upon the lmp system that is used in certain northeastern and mid-atlantic states. the lmp system includes the ability to hedge transmission congestion costs through arrs and ftrs. arrs are allocated to market participants by miso, and ftrs are purchased through auctions. a new allocation and auction were completed for the period of june 1, 2019 , through may 31, 2020 . the resulting arr allocation and the secured ftrs are expected to mitigate our transmission congestion risk for that period. miso has an annual zonal resource adequacy requirement to ensure there is sufficient generation capacity to serve the miso market. to meet this requirement, capacity resources can be acquired through miso's annual capacity auction, bilateral contracts for capacity, or provided from generating or demand response resources. all of our capacity requirements during the planning year from june 1, 2019 , through may 31, 2020 were met. other electric regulations our electric utilities are subject to the federal power act and the corresponding regulations developed by certain federal agencies. the energy policy act amended the federal power act in 2005 to, among other things, make electric utility industry consolidation 2019 form 10-k 18 wec energy group, inc. table of contents more feasible, authorize the ferc to review proposed mergers and the acquisition of generation facilities, change the ferc regulatory scheme applicable to qualifying cogeneration facilities, and modify certain other aspects of energy regulations and federal tax policies applicable to us. additionally, the energy policy act created an electric reliability organization to be overseen by the ferc, which established mandatory electric reliability standards and has the authority to levy monetary sanctions for failure to comply with these standards. we and wps are subject to act 141 in wisconsin, and umerc is subject to public acts 295 and 342 in michigan, which contain certain minimum requirements for renewable energy generation. all of our hydroelectric facilities follow ferc guidelines and/or regulations. other natural gas regulations almost all of the natural gas we distribute is transported to our distribution systems by interstate pipelines. the pipelines' transportation and storage services, including pgl's natural gas hub, are regulated by the ferc under the natural gas act and the natural gas policy act of 1978. in addition, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration and the state commissions are responsible for monitoring and enforcing requirements governing our natural gas utilities' safety compliance programs for our pipelines under the united states department of transportation regulations. these regulations include 49 cfr part 191 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline; annual reports, incident reports, and safety-related condition reports), 49 cfr part 192 (transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards), and 49 cfr part 195 (transportation of hazardous liquids by pipeline). we are required to provide natural gas service and grant credit (with applicable deposit requirements) to customers within our service territories. we are generally not allowed to discontinue natural gas service during winter moratorium months to residential heating customers who do not pay their bills. federal and certain state governments have programs that provide for a limited amount of funding for assistance to low-income customers of our utilities. non-utility energy infrastructure operations the generation facilities constructed by wholly owned subsidiaries of we power are being leased on a long-term basis to we. environmental permits necessary for operating the facilities are the responsibility of the operating entity, we. we power received determinations from the ferc that upon the transfer of the facilities by lease to we, we power's subsidiaries would not be deemed public utilities under the federal power act and thus would not be subject to the ferc's jurisdiction. bluewater is regulated by the ferc under the natural gas act and the natural gas policy act of 1978. in addition, the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration is responsible for monitoring and enforcing requirements governing bluewater's safety compliance programs for its pipelines under the united states department of transportation regulations. these regulations include 49 cfr parts 191, 192, and 195. given that bluewater is required to route some of its natural gas through canada, applicable reporting and licensing with the united states department of energy and the canadian national energy board are also required, along with routine reporting related to imports and exports. bishop hill iii, coyote ridge, and upstream are all subject to the ferc's regulation of wholesale energy under the federal power act. f. environmental compliance our operations, especially as they relate to our coal-fired generating facilities, are subject to extensive environmental regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste management, environmental remediation, and management of natural resources. costs associated with complying with these requirements are significant. additional future environmental regulations or revisions to existing laws, including for example, additional regulation related to ghg emissions, coal combustion products, air emissions, water use, or wastewater discharges and other climate change issues, could significantly increase these environmental compliance costs. anticipated expenditures for environmental compliance and certain remediation issues for the next three years are included in the estimated capital expenditures described in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources capital requirements. for a discussion of certain environmental matters affecting us, 2019 form 10-k 19 wec energy group, inc. table of contents including rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, land quality, and climate change, see note 23, commitments and contingencies . g. employees as of december 31, 2019 , we had the following number of employees: total employees we 2,562 wps 1,190 wg 392 pgl 1,497 nsg 150 merc 217 mgu 146 wbs 1,355 total employees 7,509 as of december 31, 2019 , we had employees represented under labor agreements with the following bargaining units: number of employees expiration date of current labor agreement we local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 1,547 august 15, 2020 local 420 of international union of operating engineers 351 september 30, 2021 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america 103 october 31, 2021 local 510 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 4 october 31, 2020 total we 2,005 wps local 420 of international union of operating engineers 858 april 16, 2021 wg local 2150 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 87 august 15, 2020 local 2006 unit 1 of united steel workers of america 184 october 31, 2021 total wg 271 pgl local 18007 of utility workers union of america 945 april 30, 2023 local 18007(c) of utility workers union of america 59 july 31, 2021 total pgl 1,004 nsg local 2285 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 103 june 30, 2024 merc local 31 of international brotherhood of electrical workers 44 may 31, 2020 local 49 of international union of operating engineers 3 january 1, 2022 total merc 47 mgu local 12295 of united steelworkers of america * 68 january 15, 2023 local 417 of utility workers union of america 24 february 15, 2022 total mgu 92 total represented employees 4,380 * a three year contract was ratified between mgu and the union steelworkers of america, local 12295, on january 11, 2020. 2019 form 10-k 20 wec energy group, inc. table of contents item 1a. risk factors we are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the sec from time to time, when making an investment decision. risks related to legislation and regulation our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation and oversight. we are subject to significant state, local, and federal governmental regulation, including regulation by the various utility commissions in the states where we serve customers. these regulations significantly influence our operating environment, may affect our ability to recover costs from utility customers, and cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs. changes in regulations, interpretations of regulations, or the imposition of new regulations could also significantly impact us, including requiring us to change our business operations. many aspects of our operations are regulated and impacted by government regulation, including, but not limited to: the rates we charge our retail electric, natural gas, and steam customers; the authorized rates of return of our utilities; construction and operation of electric generating facilities and electric and natural gas distribution systems, including the ability to recover such costs; decommissioning generating facilities, the ability to recover the related costs, and continuing to recover the return on the net book value of these facilities; wholesale power service practices; electric reliability requirements and accounting; participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market; standards of service; issuance of securities; short-term debt obligations; transactions with affiliates; and billing practices. failure to comply with any applicable rules or regulations may lead to customer refunds, penalties, and other payments, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the rates, including adjustments determined under riders, we are allowed to charge our customers for retail and wholesale services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. rate regulation provides us an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. however, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action, and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. in addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable roe. we defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery from or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. if recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be recognized in current period expense and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses for our existing operations, have complied in all material respects with all of their associated terms, and that our businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws. these permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. in addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted by federal, state, and local agencies, or these agencies may adopt new laws and regulations that apply to us. we cannot predict the impact on our business and operating results of any such actions by these agencies. if we are unable to recover costs of complying with regulations or other associated costs in customer rates in a timely manner, or if we are unable to obtain, renew, or comply with these governmental permits, approvals, authorizations, certificates, or licenses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we face significant costs to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. our operations are subject to numerous federal and state environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions (including, but not limited to: co 2, methane, mercury, so 2 , and nox), protection of natural resources, water quality, wastewater discharges, and management of hazardous, toxic, and solid wastes and substances. we incur significant costs to comply with these environmental requirements, including costs associated with the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at our facilities. in addition, if we fail to comply with 2019 form 10-k 21 wec energy group, inc. table of contents environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. the epa adopted and implemented (or is in the process of implementing) regulations governing the emission of nox, so 2 , fine particulate matter, mercury, and other air pollutants under the caa through the naaqs, the mats rule, the ace rule, the cross-state air pollution rule, and other air quality regulations. in addition, the epa finalized regulations under the clean water act that govern cooling water intake structures at our power plants and revised the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants. we continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. in addition, as a result of the upcoming 2020 federal presidential election and the lack of final resolution of several environmental standards, there is uncertainty as to what capital expenditures or additional costs may ultimately be required to comply with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level that could result in significant additional expenditures for our generation units or distribution systems, including, without limitation, costs to further limit ghg emissions from our operations; operating restrictions on our facilities; and increased compliance costs. in addition, the operation of emission control equipment and compliance with rules regulating our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. any such regulation may also create substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances and could affect the availability and/or cost of fossil fuels. as a result of these environmental laws and regulations and other factors, certain of our coal-fired electric generating facilities have become uneconomical to maintain and operate, which has resulted in these units being retired or converted to an alternative type of fuel. we retired approximately 1,800 mw of coal-fired generation since the beginning of 2018, including the 2018 retirements of the pleasant prairie power plant, pulliam power plant, and the jointly-owned edgewater unit 4 generating unit and the 2019 retirement of the pipp. certain of our remaining coal-fired electric generating facilities may also be retired or converted in the future. if other generation facility owners in the midwest retire a significant number of older coal-fired generation facilities, a potential reduction in the region's capacity reserve margin below acceptable risk levels may result. this could impair the reliability of the grid in the midwest, particularly during peak demand periods. a reduction in available future capacity could also adversely affect our ability to serve our customers' needs. our electric and natural gas utilities are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental impacts at certain of our current and former facilities and at third-party owned sites. we accrue liabilities and defer costs (recorded as regulatory assets) incurred in connection with our former manufactured gas plant sites. these costs include all costs incurred to date that we expect to recover, management's best estimates of future costs for investigation and remediation, related legal expenses, and are net of amounts recovered (or that may be recovered) from insurance or other third parties. due to the potential for the imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future, the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, a change in conditions or the discovery of additional contamination, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate or could vary from the amounts currently accrued. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity and natural gas, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, has become more frequent throughout the united states. in addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of facilities that we previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during, or after the time we owned or operated these facilities. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. management believes it is reasonably likely that the scientific and political attention to issues concerning the existence and extent of climate change, and the role of human activity in it, will continue, with the potential for further regulation that affects our 2019 form 10-k 22 wec energy group, inc. table of contents operations. the ace rule became effective in september 2019 and is currently being litigated by multiple states (including illinois, michigan, minnesota, and wisconsin), local governments, and non-government organizations. this rule provides existing coal-fired generating units with standards for achieving ghg emission reductions. every state's plan to implement ace is required to focus on reducing ghg emissions by improving the efficiency of fossil-fueled power plants. we are continuing to analyze the ghg emission profile of our electric generation resources and to work with other stakeholders to determine the potential impacts to our operations of the ace rule and federal and state ghg regulations in general. there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with these and other federal and state regulations or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. ghg regulations that may be adopted in the future, at either the federal or state level, may cause our environmental compliance spending to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. these regulations, as well as changes in the fuel markets and advances in technology, could make additional electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, may impact how we operate our existing fossil-fueled power plants and biomass facility, and could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions in the future. these regulations could also adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. in addition, our natural gas delivery systems and natural gas storage fields may generate fugitive gas as a result of normal operations and as a result of excavation, construction, and repair. fugitive gas typically vents to the atmosphere and consists primarily of methane. co 2 is also a byproduct of natural gas consumption. as a result, future regulation of ghg emissions could increase the price of natural gas, restrict the use of natural gas, cause us to accelerate the replacement and/or updating of our natural gas delivery systems, and adversely affect our ability to operate our natural gas facilities. a significant increase in the price of natural gas may increase rates for our natural gas customers, which could reduce natural gas demand. we also continue to monitor the feasibility of taking more aggressive action to further reduce ghg emissions in order to limit future global temperature increases. these efforts could impact how we operate our electric generating units and natural gas facilities and lead to increased competition and regulation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. changes in federal income tax policy may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings. we and our subsidiaries have invested or will be investing in renewable energy generating facilities, several of which generate production tax credits and investment tax credits that we use to reduce our federal tax obligations. the amount of tax credits we earn depends on the level of electricity generated, the applicable tax credit rate, and the amount of the investment in qualifying property. if our tax credits were disallowed in whole or in part as a result of an irs audit or changes in tax law, we could owe tax liabilities for previously recognized tax credits that could significantly impact our earnings and cash flows. in addition, if corporate tax rates or policies are changed with future federal or state legislation, we may be required to take material charges against earnings. for example, the tax legislation significantly changed the united states internal revenue code, including taxation of united states corporations, by, among other things, reducing the federal corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, and altering the expensing of capital expenditures. parts of the tax legislation still remain unclear and will require additional interpretations and implementing regulations by the treasury department and the irs, as well as state income tax authorities, and the tax legislation could continue to be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the tax legislation. state and local taxing authorities continue to evaluate the impact of the tax legislation, and any changes on the state or local level could lessen or increase the impacts of the tax legislation. there is still uncertainty as to when or how credit rating agencies, capital markets, the ferc, or state public utility commissions will treat any additional impacts of the tax legislation. these impacts could subject us or any of our subsidiaries to further credit rating downgrades. it is unclear whether additional opportunities may evolve for us to manage the adverse impacts of the tax legislation. in addition, certain financial metrics used by credit rating agencies, such as our funds from operations-to-debt percentage, could be negatively impacted by future rulings related to the tax legislation. based on our current evaluation of the tax legislation, we do not expect the limitations on interest deductions to materially adversely affect our earnings per share. any amendments to the tax legislation or interpretations or implementing regulations by the treasury department and/or the irs contrary to our interpretation of the tax legislation could limit our ability to deduct the interest on some of our outstanding debt. 2019 form 10-k 23 wec energy group, inc. table of contents there may be other material adverse effects resulting from the tax legislation that we have not yet identified. if we are unable to successfully take actions to manage any adverse impacts of the tax legislation, or if additional interpretations, regulations, amendments, or technical corrections exacerbate the adverse impacts of the tax legislation, the tax legislation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and on the value of investments in our debt securities and common stock, and could result in credit rating agencies placing our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings on negative outlook or further downgrading our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings. we may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. we are subject to reporting, disclosure control, and other obligations under sox. sox contains provisions requiring our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. we have undertaken, and will continue to undertake, a variety of initiatives to integrate, standardize, centralize, and streamline our operations with technology, including, but not limited to, the implementation of several different erp systems. there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective because of the discovery of material weaknesses, with either our current controls and processes or with the implementation of new controls and processes around these new technologies. any failure to maintain effective internal controls or a determination by our independent registered public accounting firm that we have a material weakness in our internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy or completeness of our financial reports, cause a decline in the market price of our common stock, restrict our access to the capital markets, or subject us to investigations by the sec or other regulatory authorities. our electric utilities could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards. our electric utilities are subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the north american electric reliability corporation and enforced by the ferc. the critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets. compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject our electric utilities to higher operating costs. if our electric utilities were ever found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the holding company act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exceptions. in addition, the holding company act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors, and the public. this provision and other requirements of the holding company act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wec energy group. as a result, shareholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. risks related to the operation of our business our operations are subject to risks arising from the reliability of our electric generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, natural gas infrastructure facilities, and other facilities, as well as the reliability of third-party transmission providers. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generation and natural gas and electric distribution facilities. the operation of these facilities involves many risks, including operator error and the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes. potential breakdown or failure may occur due to severe weather; catastrophic events (i.e., fires, earthquakes, explosions, tornadoes, floods, droughts, pandemic health events, etc.); significant changes in water levels in waterways; fuel supply or transportation disruptions; accidents; employee labor disputes; construction delays or cost overruns; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material, and/or labor; performance below expected levels; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; or cyber security intrusions. any of these events could lead to substantial financial losses. 2019 form 10-k 24 wec energy group, inc. table of contents because our electric generation facilities are interconnected with third-party transmission facilities, the operation of our facilities could also be adversely affected by events impacting their systems. unplanned outages at our power plants may reduce our revenues, cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. insurance, warranties, performance guarantees, or recovery through the regulatory process may not cover any or all of these lost revenues or increased expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. our operations are subject to various conditions that can result in fluctuations in energy sales to customers, including customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas, varying weather conditions, and energy conservation efforts. our results of operations and cash flows are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas, which can vary greatly based upon: fluctuations in customer growth and general economic conditions in our service areas. customer growth and energy use can be negatively impacted by population declines as well as economic factors in our service territories, including workforce reductions, stagnant wage growth, changing levels of support from state and local government for economic development, business closings, and reductions in the level of business investment. our electric and natural gas utilities are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. any economic downturn, disruption of financial markets, or reduced incentives by state government for economic development could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products or services. these risks could directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas as well as the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. we could also be exposed to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills. weather conditions . demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months when cooling and heating is necessary. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, milder temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season may result in lower revenues and net income. our customers' continued focus on energy conservation . our customers' use of electricity and natural gas has decreased as a result of continued individual conservation efforts, including the use of more energy efficient technologies. customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income and increases in energy prices. conservation of energy can be influenced by certain federal and state programs that are intended to influence how consumers use energy. for example, several states, including wisconsin and michigan, have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. as part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer growth and general economic conditions, weather, and customer energy conservation efforts, but risks still remain. any of these matters, as well as any regulatory delay in adjusting rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. we are actively involved with several significant capital projects, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. we also expect to continue investing in renewable energy generating facilities as part of our generation reshaping plan and as part of our non-utility energy infrastructure segment. in addition, wbs continues to invest in technology and the development of software applications to support our utilities. achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties, some of which we will have limited or no control over, that could adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, the ability to adhere to established budgets and time frames; the availability of labor or materials at estimated costs; the ability of contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable laws or regulations; the impact on global supply chains of pandemic health events; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy. in addition, certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. if construction of commission-approved projects should materially and adversely deviate from the schedules, estimates, and projections on which the approval was based, our regulators may deem the additional capital costs as imprudent and 2019 form 10-k 25 wec energy group, inc. table of contents disallow recovery of them through rates, and otherwise available production tax credits and investment tax credits for renewable energy projects could be lost or lose value. to the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, tax credits are lost or lose value, or we (or third parties with whom we invest and/or partner) otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our (or their) capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. our operations are subject to risks beyond our control, including but not limited to, cyber security intrusions, terrorist attacks, acts of war, or unauthorized access to personally identifiable information. we have been subject to attempted cyber attacks from time to time, but these attacks have not had a material impact on our system or business operations. despite the implementation of security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to physical or cyber security intrusions caused by human error, vendor bugs, terrorist attacks, or other malicious acts. these threats against our generation facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, our information and technology systems, and network infrastructure, including that of third parties on which we rely, could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, purchase, or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. if our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached, and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may be unable to perform critical business functions, and data, including sensitive information, could be compromised. we operate in an industry that requires the use of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which control an interconnected system of generation, distribution, and transmission systems shared with third parties. a successful physical or cyber security intrusion may occur despite our security measures or those that we require our vendors to take, which include compliance with reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards. successful cyber security intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and storage systems, could disrupt our operations and result in loss of service to customers. these intrusions may cause unplanned outages at our power plants, which may reduce our revenues or cause us to incur significant costs if we are required to operate our higher cost electric generators or purchase replacement power to satisfy our obligations, and could result in additional maintenance expenses. the risk of such intrusions may also increase our capital and operating costs as a result of having to implement increased security measures for protection of our information technology and infrastructure. our continued efforts to integrate, consolidate, and streamline our operations have also resulted in increased reliance on current and recently completed projects for technology systems, including but not limited to, a customer information and billing system, automated meter reading systems, and other similar technological tools and initiatives. we implement procedures to protect our systems, but we cannot guarantee that the procedures we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data and systems are adequate to safeguard against all security breaches. the failure of any of these or other similarly important technologies, or our inability to support, update, expand, and/or integrate these technologies across our subsidiaries could materially and adversely impact our operations, diminish customer confidence and our reputation, materially increase the costs we incur to protect against these risks, and subject us to possible financial liability or increased regulation or litigation. our business requires the collection and retention of personally identifiable information of our customers, shareholders, and employees, who expect that we will adequately protect such information. security breaches may expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information. a significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of personally identifiable information may lead to potentially large costs to notify and protect the impacted persons, and/or could cause us to become subject to significant litigation, costs, liability, fines, or penalties, any of which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations as well as our reputation with customers, shareholders, and regulators, among others. in addition, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such intrusions or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. we may also need to obtain additional insurance coverage related to the threat of such intrusions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions caused by these on-going threats to our assets and technology systems could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. the costs of repairing damage to our facilities, operational disruptions, protecting personally identifiable information, and notifying impacted persons, as well as related legal claims, may also not be recoverable in rates, may exceed the insurance limits on our insurance policies, or, in some cases, may not be covered by insurance. 2019 form 10-k 26 wec energy group, inc. table of contents advances in technology could make our electric generating facilities less competitive. advances in new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption are ongoing and include renewable energy technologies, customer-oriented generation, energy storage devices, and energy efficiency technologies. we generate power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. there are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive than they were in the past. it is possible that legislation or regulations could be adopted supporting the use of these technologies. there is also a risk that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station power production. if these technologies become cost competitive and achieve economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses. we transport, distribute, and store natural gas, which involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. inherent in natural gas distribution activities are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to us. the location of natural gas pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. these activities may subject us to litigation and/or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms. we are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations. as a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations including, but not limited to, debt service, taxes, and other expenses, as well as pay dividends on our common stock, is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that are not required to pay any of our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for the payment of dividends on our common stock. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us depends on their earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, and general financial condition, as well as regulatory limitations. prior to distributing cash to us, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. in addition, each subsidiary's ability to pay amounts to us depends on any statutory, regulatory, and/or contractual restrictions and limitations applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain specified levels of debt or equity ratios, working capital, or other assets. our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met. we may fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us. failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our counterparties may fail to meet their obligations, including obligations under power purchase, natural gas supply, and transportation agreements. we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to various arrangements who owe us money, electricity, natural gas, or other commodities or services will not be able to perform their obligations. should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be required to replace the underlying commitment at current market prices or we may be unable to meet all of our 2019 form 10-k 27 wec energy group, inc. table of contents customers' electric and natural gas requirements unless or until alternative supply arrangements are put in place. in such event, we may incur losses, and our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be adversely affected. we have entered into several power purchase, natural gas supply, and transportation agreements with non-affiliated companies, and continue to look for additional opportunities to enter into these agreements. revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the counterparties of their obligations under the power purchase, natural gas supply, and transportation agreements. although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more counterparties could fail to perform their obligations under these agreements. if this were to occur, we generally would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase, natural gas supply, or transportation agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers. to the extent these costs are not allowed to be reallocated by our regulators or there is any regulatory delay in adjusting rates, a counterparty default under these agreements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we may not be able to fully use tax credits, net operating losses, and/or charitable contribution carryforwards. we have significantly reduced our consolidated federal and state income tax liability in the past through tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available under the applicable tax codes. we have not fully used the allowed tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions in our previous tax filings. we may not be able to fully use the tax credits, net operating losses, and charitable contribution deductions available as carryforwards if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit their use. in addition, any future disallowance of some or all of those tax credits, net operating losses, or charitable contribution carryforwards as a result of legislation or an adverse determination by one of the applicable taxing jurisdictions could materially affect our tax obligations and financial results. we have recorded goodwill that could become impaired. we assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or circumstances occur that indicate a potential for impairment. if goodwill is deemed to be impaired, we may be required to incur non-cash charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. at december 31, 2019 , our goodwill was $3,052.8 million . risks related to economic and market volatility our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to credit and capital markets to support our capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. in addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity, which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. our or our subsidiaries' access to the credit and capital markets could be limited, or our or our subsidiaries' cost of capital significantly increased, due to any of the following risks and uncertainties: a rating downgrade; an economic downturn or uncertainty; prevailing market conditions and rules; concerns over foreign economic conditions; changes in tax policy; changes in investment criteria of institutional investors; war or the threat of war; the overall health and view of the utility and financial institution industries; and changes in the method of determining libor or the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate. a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable interest rates, primarily based on libor. libor is the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, which may cause libor to cease to exist after 2021 or to perform differently than in the past. while we expect that reasonable alternatives to libor will be implemented prior to the 2019 form 10-k 28 wec energy group, inc. table of contents 2021 target date, we cannot predict the consequences and timing of the development of alternative reference rates. the transition to alternative reference rates could include an increase in our interest expense and/or reduction in our interest income. if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition, and could limit our ability to sustain our current common stock dividend level. a downgrade in our or any of our subsidiaries' credit ratings could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries' ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral. there are a number of factors that impact our and our subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, but not limited to, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. we or any of our subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of us, our utilities, or the utility industry has deteriorated. changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. any downgrade by the rating agencies could: increase borrowing costs under certain existing credit facilities; require the payment of higher interest rates in future financings and possibly reduce the pool of creditors; decrease funding sources by limiting our or our subsidiaries' access to the commercial paper market; limit the availability of adequate credit support for our subsidiaries' operations; and trigger collateral requirements in various contracts. see the risk factor titled "changes in federal income tax policy may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, as well as our or our subsidiaries' credit ratings" above for information about how the tax legislation could impact our or our subsidiaries' credits ratings. fluctuating commodity prices could negatively impact our electric and natural gas utility operations. our operating and liquidity requirements are impacted by changes in the forward and current market prices of natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy credits, and ancillary services. our electric utilities burn natural gas in several of their electric generation plants and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. the cost of natural gas may increase because of disruptions in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution, international market conditions, the demand for natural gas, and the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility. for wisconsin retail electric customers, our utilities bear the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical 2% fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in their respective rate structures. prudently incurred fuel and purchased power costs are recovered dollar-for-dollar from our michigan retail electric customers and our wholesale electric customers. our natural gas utilities receive dollar-for-dollar recovery of prudently incurred natural gas costs from their natural gas customers. changes in commodity prices could result in: higher working capital requirements, particularly related to natural gas inventory, accounts receivable, and cash collateral postings; reduced profitability to the extent that lower revenues, increased bad debt, and interest expense are not recovered through rates; higher rates charged to our customers, which could impact our competitive position; reduced demand for energy, which could impact revenues and operating expenses; and shutting down of generation facilities if the cost of generation exceeds the market price for electricity. 2019 form 10-k 29 wec energy group, inc. table of contents we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities. we own and operate several coal-fired electric generating units. although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to protect against an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory levels will be adequate. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, we cannot assure that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices or we may be forced to reduce generation at our coal-fired units, which could lead to increased fuel costs. the increase in fuel costs could result in either reduced margins on net sales into the miso energy markets, a reduction in the volume of net sales into the miso energy markets, and/or an increase in net power purchases in the miso energy markets. there is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed, either of which could adversely affect our cash flows. our use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses. we use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards to manage commodity price exposure. we could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. these risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. in addition, although the hedging programs of our utilities must be approved by the various state commissions, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. in the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. restructuring in the regulated energy industry and competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a negative impact on our business and revenues. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. deregulation or other changes in law in the states where we serve our customers could allow third-party suppliers to contract directly with customers for their natural gas and electric supply requirements. this increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. certain jurisdictions in which we operate, including michigan and illinois, have adopted retail choice. under michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. the law limits customer choice to 10% of our michigan retail load. the iron ore mine located in the upper peninsula of michigan is excluded from this cap. when a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer. although illinois has adopted retail choice, there is currently little or no impact on the net income of our illinois utilities as they still earn a distribution charge for transporting the natural gas for these customers. it is uncertain whether retail choice might be implemented in wisconsin or minnesota. the ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc-approved rto, miso implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the miso energy markets. all market participants, including us, must submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes an lmp that reflects the market price for energy. we are required to follow miso's instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso's responsibility for maintaining the stability of the transmission system. miso also implemented an ancillary services market for operating reserves that schedules energy and ancillary services at the same time as part of the energy market, allowing for more efficient use of generation assets in the miso energy markets. these market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the miso energy markets, and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements. the ferc rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers, and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. in addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter. technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. we currently cannot 2019 form 10-k 30 wec energy group, inc. table of contents predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control. we may experience poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings due to changes in assumptions and market conditions. we have significant obligations related to pension and opeb plans. if we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted. our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors, including actual plan experience, changes made to the plans, and assumptions concerning the future. types of assumptions include earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation, estimated withdrawals by retirees, and our required or voluntary contributions to the plans. plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. in addition, medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. our funding requirements could be impacted by a decline in the market value of plan assets, changes in interest rates, changes in demographics (including the number of retirements), or changes in life expectancy assumptions. in addition, we maintain rabbi trusts to fund our deferred compensation plans, which from time to time, hold equity and debt investments that are subject to market fluctuations. decreases in investment performance of these assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. we may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers and our contractors that are required to acquire and maintain insurance for our benefit. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations factors affecting results, liquidity, and capital resources market risks and other significant risks, as well as note 1(p), fair value measurements , note 1(q), derivative instruments , and note 18, guarantees , for information concerning potential market risks to which we are exposed. 2019 form 10-k 67 wec energy group, inc. table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see factors affecting results, liquidity and capital resources - market risks and other significant risks in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report for information concerning potential market risks to which wisconsin energy and its subsidiaries are exposed. 68 wisconsin energy corporation table of contents 2004 form 10-krisk factors our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation. we are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. we are subject to the regulation of the pscw as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. in addition, we are subject to the regulation of the mpsc as to the various matters associated 27 wisconsin energy corporation table of contents 2006 form 10-k item 1a. risk factors - (cont d) with retail electric service in the state of michigan, except as to issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates. further, our hydroelectric facilities are regulated by ferc, and ferc also regulates our wholesale power service practices. our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs. we are obligated in good faith to comply with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. if it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties or other amounts, which could materially adversely effect our results of operations and financial condition. we estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 88% of our electric revenues are regulated by the pscw, 7% are regulated by the mpsc and the balance of our electric revenues is regulated by ferc. all of our natural gas revenues are regulated by the pscw. our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to recover our prudent costs and expenses and to maintain our current authorized rates of return. factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of the natural gas-fired and coal-fired generating units we are constructing as part of our ptf strategy. under our ptf strategy, we expect to meet a significant portion of our future generation needs through the construction of two 545 mw natural gas-fired generating units at pwgs and two 615 mw coal-fired generating units to be located adjacent to our existing oak creek power plant. pwgs 1 was placed in service in july 2005 and has a current dependable capability of 575 mw. a second 545 mw natural gas-fired generating unit is currently being constructed. large construction projects of this type are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. these risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the inability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, strikes, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner and changes in applicable law or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by the permitting agencies, governmental actions and events in the global economy. if final costs for the construction of the pwgs units exceed the fixed costs allowed in the pscw order, absent a finding by the pscw of extraordinary circumstances, such as force majeure conditions, this excess will not adjust the amount of the lease payments recovered from wisconsin electric. if final costs of the oak creek expansion are within 5% of the targeted cost, and the additional costs are deemed prudent by the pscw, the final lease payments for the oak creek expansion recovered from wisconsin electric would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs. costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the pscw of extraordinary circumstances, such as force majeure conditions. as required by the energy policy act, ferc developed new rules to implement certain provisions of the energy policy act. pursuant to these new rules, wisconsin electric requested ferc authorization in november 2006 to lease from we power the three ptf units that are currently being constructed by we power. we received authorization from ferc for these leases in december 2006. we face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. we are subject to extensive environmental regulations affecting our past, present and future operations relating to, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, small particulates and mercury, water discharges, management of hazardous and solid waste (including polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs)) and removal of degraded lead paint. we incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities. 28 wisconsin energy corporation table of contents 2006 form 10-k item 1a. risk factors - (cont d) existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. the operation of emission control equipment to meet emission limits and further regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. in the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at our current and former facilities, as well as at third-party owned sites. due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate. in addition, we may also be responsible for liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us. the incurrence of a material environmental liability could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ownership and operation of nuclear generating units involve inherent risks that may result in substantial costs and liabilities. we own two 518 mw nuclear electric generating units at point beach. the units are operated by nmc, a joint venture of wisconsin energy and affiliates of other unaffiliated utilities. during 2006, our nuclear generating units provided approximately 25.3% of our net electric energy supply. in december 2006, we announced that we had reached a definitive agreement to sell our nuclear plant to an affiliate of fpl. this transaction is subject to regulatory review and approval and we anticipate it will close during the third quarter of 2007. until the transaction is approved, wisconsin electric continues to own point beach and retains exclusive rights to the energy generated by the plant, as well as financial responsibility for the safe operation, maintenance and decommissioning of point beach. our nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including: handling of nuclear materials, on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel and the current lack of a long-term solution for disposal of materials; mechanical or structural problems; lapses in maintenance procedures; human errors in the operation of the reactors or safety systems; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; the continued ability of nmc to effectively manage and operate our nuclear facilities; and uncertainties regarding our ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning the units. while we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our units, if an incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to us that may significantly exceed the amount of our insurance coverage and reserves. the nrc has broad authority to impose licensing and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities. in the event of non-compliance, the nrc has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, until compliance is achieved. further, in the event of a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world, the nrc could limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. as a result of the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the nrc and the industry have been strengthening security at nuclear power plants. increased security measures and other safety requirements could require us to make substantial capital expenditures at our nuclear generating units. acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our electric generation and gas transportation facilities, including our nuclear facilities and the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities. a terrorist attack on our facilities could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 29 wisconsin energy corporation table of contents 2006 form 10-k item 1a. risk factors - (cont d) energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year. our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. in addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. as a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. in addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. our rates in wisconsin are set by the pscw based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. in addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. higher natural gas costs may negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations. significant increases in the cost of natural gas affect our electric and gas utility operations. natural gas costs have increased significantly because the supply of natural gas in recent years has not kept pace with the demand for natural gas, which has grown throughout the united states as a result of increased reliance on natural gas-fired electric generating facilities. we expect that demand for natural gas will remain high into the foreseeable future and that significant price relief will not occur until additional natural gas reserves are developed. wisconsin electric electric operations burn natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in the leased pwgs 1 and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants, and in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. in addition, higher natural gas costs also can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of these fuels as well. in addition, higher natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements. as a result of gcrms, our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar pass through of the cost of natural gas. however, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins. in addition, higher natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions also exposes us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills. we may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our facilities. we are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. while we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us. the suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. in addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. if we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to obtain additional mwh purchases through other potentially higher cost generating resources in the miso midwest market. higher costs to obtain coal increase our working capital requirements. our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities. our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities. operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences. unplanned generation outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. we are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories. our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve. in the event regional economic conditions decline, we may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. in addition, regional economic conditions also impact our collections of accounts receivable. 30 wisconsin energy corporation table of contents 2006 form 10-k item 1a. risk factors - (cont d) our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets. we rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements. we have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities, preferred stock and common stock. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates. if our access to the capital markets were limited due to a ratings downgrade, prevailing market conditions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we are a holding company and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. wisconsin energy is a holding company and has no significant operations of its own. accordingly, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. our subsidiaries have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. in addition, each of wisconsin energy, wisconsin electric and wisconsin gas bank back-up credit facilities have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained. provisions of the wisconsin utility holding company act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock. under the wisconsin utility holding company act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. under the public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates. in addition, this act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a wisconsin public utility unless the pscw has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. this provision and other requirements of this act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of wisconsin energy. as a result, you may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices. governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses. wisconsin electric, wisconsin gas and edison sault are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. these permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. in addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency. also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other associated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business. the regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. it is uncertain when retail access might be implemented in wisconsin; however, michigan has adopted retail choice which potentially affects our michigan operations. under retail access legislation, customers are permitted to choose their own electric generation supplier. all michigan electric customers were able to choose their electric generation supplier beginning in january 2002. although competition and customer switching to 31 wisconsin energy corporation table of contents 2006 form 10-k item 1a. risk factors - (cont d) alternative suppliers in our service territories in michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs. ferc continues to support the existing rtos that affect the structure of the wholesale market within those rtos. in connection with its status as a ferc approved rto, miso implemented the miso midwest market on april 1, 2005. the miso midwest market rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the miso region. miso then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a lmp that reflects the market price for energy. as a participant in the miso midwest market, we are required to follow miso instructions when dispatching generating units to support miso responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. additionally, the miso midwest market subjects us to additional costs primarily associated with constraints in the transmission system. miso implemented the lmp system, a market-based platform for valuing transmission congestion. the lmp system includes the ability to mitigate or eliminate congestion charges through the use of ftrs. ftrs are allocated to market participants by miso for a twelve month period. there can be no assurance that we will be granted an adequate level of ftrs in the future to avoid material unhedged congestion charges. as allowed by the pscw, unhedged congestion charges are deferred and we expect to recover these costs in future rates, subject to review and approval of the pscw.