risk factors 14 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. the risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect our company. the recent global economic crisis and continued volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets as well as prolonged declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. the global economic crisis and the continued volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in additional significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions have led to decreases in consumer spending across the economy. increases in the levels of unemployment, energy costs, healthcare costs and taxes, combined with tighter credit markets, reduced consumer confidence and other factors, contribute to the decline in consumer spending. although there has been limited recent improvement in some of these measures, the level of consumer spending is not where it was prior to the global recession. such reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of inventory purchased by our customers, which may adversely affect our industry, business and financial condition. 14 economic conditions have also resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions, which is a source of capital for our borrowing and liquidity. this tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. it is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, the extent to which they will continue to deteriorate, if at all, and which aspects of our products or business may be adversely affected. current market and credit conditions could make it more difficult for developers and landlords to obtain the necessary credit to build new retail centers. a significant decrease in new retail center development has adversely affected our new store program and could limit our future growth opportunities as long as the aforementioned conditions exist. continued turbulence in the united states and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. a further downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary beauty products and salon services, which could delay our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our financial condition may be materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and elsewhere around the world. the stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008 and 2009. concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the u.s. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the u.s. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy. we offer a wide selection of beauty products and premium salon services. continued uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact levels of consumer discretionary spending across all of our product categories including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates and tax rates, the availability of consumer credit, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. a decrease in spending due to lower consumer discretionary income or consumer confidence could adversely impact our net sales and operating results, and could force us to delay or slow our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our product vendors as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry even when economic conditions are favorable. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, internet businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. 15 as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the regions in which we operate, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. ms. kirby, our president and chief executive officer since december 1999, is important to our business, including her relationships with our vendors and influence on our sales and marketing. ms. kirby has an agreement to remain employed with us through march 2011, and if we lost ms. kirby services before the conclusion of this agreement, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of other key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. during fiscal 2009, we opened 37 new stores. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future, and believe we have the long-term potential to grow our store base to over 1,000 stores in the united states. during fiscal 2009, the average investment required to open a typical new store is approximately $1.1 million. this continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently, have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance and slow our growth. 16 the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we operate two distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. in order to support our recent and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, additional distribution centers may need to be added in the future. our failure to expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any significant interruption in the operations of our two distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 21,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base and fulfill customer orders from our e-commerce business. we have identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support recent and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial information and credit card transactions, and our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders or engage in normal business activities. moreover, security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers private data, could result in liability, decrease customer confidence in our company, and weaken our ability to compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our e-commerce operations, while relatively small, are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our gift-with-purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political 17 changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers or lifestyle centers, which also accommodate other well-known destination retailers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants, while lifestyle centers typically contain a variety of high-end destination retailers but no large anchor stores. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in the lifestyle centers and power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center or lifestyle center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. this risk is more pronounced during the current severe economic downturn which has resulted in a number of national retailers filing for bankruptcy or closing stores due to depressed consumer spending levels. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. 18 we rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors were unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, our business and financial performance. we have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendors may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendors of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2009, merchandise supplied to ulta by our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta, and other marks incorporating that name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under the fdc act may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, the fda may in the future determine to regulate our cosmetics or the ingredients included in our cosmetics as drugs. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta products, severely 19 damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations: our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the fda, the ftc and state attorneys general in the united states. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with ftc or state regulations that cover our vendors products or our ulta product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior buildout of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which 20 we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes, which increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. our ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings, or salon services which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, or ulta products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta branded products and technology. some of our competitors 21 may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could hurt our profitability. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility, or credit facility, with a term expiring may 2011. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or the eurodollar rate plus 1.00% up to $100 million and 1.25% thereafter. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, restrict our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. in addition, when our current facility matures in may 2011, we may be unable to obtain similar terms on a new credit facility due to the uncertainty and volatility in the credit markets. we will need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we will seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for capital expenditures and working capital consistent with our growth strategy. in addition, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our belief as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. if financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may suffer. 22 failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. in addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 so that our management can periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. as a result, we have been required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. in addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendors; announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; small trading volumes and small public float; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. 23 our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of other factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, such as catalogs and newspaper inserts; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our existing or new competitors. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock would likely decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us and they could delay, deter, or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. our principal stockholders own or control, in the aggregate, approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions and will have significant influence over our management and policies. such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. in addition, the significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with stockholders holding such significant influence. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; 24 authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. on january 31, 2007, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $25,000 that qualified as a cash flow hedge to obtain a fixed interest rate on variable rate debt and reduce certain exposures to interest rate fluctuations. the swap resulted in fixed rate payments at an interest rate of 5.11% for a term of three years, ending on january 31, 2010. as of january 30, 2010 and january 31, 2009, the interest rate swap had a negative fair value of zero and $1.0 million, respectively, and is included in accrued liabilities. the change in market value during fiscal 2009 and 2008 related to the effective portion of the cash flow hedge was recorded as an unrecognized gain or loss 43 in the accumulated other comprehensive loss section of stockholders equity in the balance sheets. amounts related to any ineffectiveness, which are insignificant, are recorded as interest expense. our weighted average debt for fiscal 2009 was $37.6 million, adjusted to exclude the $25.0 million hedged amount. a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would have resulted in a $0.4 million change to our interest expense for fiscal 2009.risk factors 14 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. the recent global economic crisis and volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets as well as declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. the global economic crisis and volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions have led to decreases in consumer spending across the economy. increases in the levels of unemployment, energy costs, healthcare costs and taxes, combined with tighter credit markets, reduced consumer confidence and other factors, contribute to the decline in consumer spending. while this decline has recently moderated, the level of consumer spending is not where it was prior to the global recession, and economic conditions could lead to further declines in consumer spending in the future. additionally, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits. reduced 14 table of contents consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of inventory purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our industry, business and financial condition economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions, which is a source of capital for our borrowing and liquidity. this tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. while global credit and financial markets appear to be recovering from extreme disruptions experienced over the past few years, uncertainty about continuing economic stability remains. it is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, the extent to which they will continue to recover, if at all, and which aspects of our products or business may be adversely affected. current market and credit conditions could continue to make it more difficult for developers and landlords to obtain the necessary credit to build new retail centers. a significant decrease in new retail center development has adversely affected our new store program and could limit our future growth opportunities as long as the aforementioned conditions exist. continued turbulence in the united states and international markets and economies and declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. continued economic uncertainty may affect consumer purchases of discretionary beauty products and salon services, which could delay our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our financial condition may be materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and elsewhere around the world. the stress experienced by global capital markets in 2008 and 2009 persisted into 2010. concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the u.s. mortgage and real estate markets have contributed to volatility and diminished expectations for the economy. we offer a wide selection of beauty products and premium salon services. continued uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact levels of consumer discretionary spending across all of our product categories including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates and tax rates, the availability of consumer credit, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. a decrease in spending due to lower consumer discretionary income or consumer confidence could adversely impact our net sales and operating results, and could force us to delay or slow our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our product vendors as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry even when economic conditions are favorable. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, internet businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for 15 table of contents beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the regions in which we operate, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. chuck rubin was appointed president, chief operating officer and a member of the board of directors effective may 10, 2010 and assumed the role of chief executive officer on september 2, 2010. any significant leadership or executive management transition involves inherent risks. in addition, if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of other key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. during fiscal 2010, we opened 47 new stores. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future, and believe we have the long-term potential to grow our store base to over 1,000 stores in the united states. during fiscal 2010, the average investment required to open a typical new store was approximately $0.9 million. this continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently, have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance and slow our growth. 16 table of contents the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we operate two distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. in order to support our recent and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, we intend to open a third distribution center in fiscal 2012. our failure to expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any significant interruption in the operations of our two distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 21,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base and fulfill customer orders from our e-commerce business. we have identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support recent and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial information and credit card transactions, and our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders or engage in normal business activities. moreover, security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers private data, could result in liability, decrease customer confidence in our company, and weaken our ability to compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our e-commerce operations, while relatively small, are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our gift-with-purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political 17 table of contents changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers or lifestyle centers, which also accommodate other well-known destination retailers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants, while lifestyle centers typically contain a variety of high-end destination retailers but no large anchor stores. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in the lifestyle centers and power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center or lifestyle center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. this risk is more pronounced during the current severe economic downturn which has resulted in a number of national retailers filing for bankruptcy or closing stores due to depressed consumer spending levels. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. 18 table of contents we rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors were unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, our business and financial performance. we have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendors may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendors of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2010, merchandise supplied to ulta by our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta, and other marks incorporating that name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta products, severely damage our brand reputation and 19 table of contents image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations: in march 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the acts ) was passed and signed into law. this healthcare reform legislation significantly expands healthcare coverage to many uninsured individuals and to those already insured. due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation and the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the healthcare reform legislation on our business over the coming years. possible adverse effects include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. additionally, because significant provisions of the acts will become effective on various dates over the next several years, future changes could significantly impact any effects on our business that we previously anticipated. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the fda, the ftc and state attorneys general in the united states. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with ftc or state regulations that cover our vendors products or our ulta product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. 20 table of contents as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior buildout of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes, which increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. our ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings, or salon services which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, or ulta products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or 21 table of contents royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta branded products and technology. some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could hurt our profitability. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility, or credit facility, with a term expiring may 2013. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or libor plus 2.00% and the unused line fee is 0.25%. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. 22 table of contents we may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for capital expenditures and working capital consistent with our growth strategy. in addition, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our belief as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. if financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may suffer. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. in addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 so that our management can periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. as a result, we have been required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. in addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendors; announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; small trading volumes and small public float; 23 table of contents stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of other factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, such as catalogs and newspaper inserts; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our existing or new competitors. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock would likely decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our current principal stockholder has significant influence over us and they could delay, deter, or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. our principal stockholder owns or controls, in the aggregate, approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, this stockholder will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions and will have significant influence over our management and policies. such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. in addition, the significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with a stockholder holding such significant influence. 24 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not utilize the credit facility during fiscal 2010. 42 table of contents the company had an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $25 million which was designated as a cash flow hedge. the agreement expired on january 31, 2010. the interest rate swap was recorded at fair value in fiscal 2009 and 2008 and changes in market value related to the effective portion of the cash flow hedge was recorded as unrecognized gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) section of the stockholders equity in the balance sheets.risk factors 14 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. the risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect our company. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, internet businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the regions in which we operate, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or to attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. ms. kirby, our president and chief executive officer since december 1999, is of key importance to our business, including her relationships with our vendors and influence on our sales and marketing. if we lost ms. kirby services or if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of other key executive and buying personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ms. kirby has agreed to remain employed with us through march 2011. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. during fiscal 2007, we opened 53 new stores. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future, and 14 believe we have the long-term potential to grow our store base to over 1,000 stores in the united states over the next 10 years. during fiscal 2007, the average investment required to open a typical new store was approximately $1.5 million. this continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently, have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance and slow our growth. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have historically operated a single distribution facility, which houses the distribution operations for ulta retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. we recently began operating a second distribution facility in phoenix, arizona. we are receiving vendor product at the new facility and expect to begin shipping to our phoenix, arizona stores beginning in late april 2008. in order to support our recent and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, additional distribution centers may need to be added in the future. our failure to expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any significant interruption in the operations of our two distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have historically operated from a single distribution facility and recently began operating a second distribution facility. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying approximately 21,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our distribution infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base and fulfill customer orders from our e-commerce business. we have identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support recent and expected future growth. as part of this planned expansion of our information systems, we expect to construct a new data center and modify our warehouse management system software to support our second distribution facility. any interruption during the transition of our information systems to the new data center and the modification of our warehouse management system software could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed, including the failure of our warehouse management software system to operate as expected during the holiday season or to support our second distribution facility, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial information and credit card transactions, and our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders or engage in normal business activities. moreover, security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers private data, could result in liability, decrease customer confidence in our company, and weaken our ability to compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our e-commerce operations, while relatively small, are increasingly important to our business. we launched a new version of our ulta.com website and e-commerce platform in november 2007. the re-launch of our ulta.com website and e-commerce platform is important to our marketing efforts because the new ulta.com website serves as a more effective extension of ulta marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by better exposing potential new customers to the ulta brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. 15 a downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as prestige beauty products and premium salon services, which could delay our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer a broad selection of prestige beauty products at higher price points than mass beauty products. we also offer a wide selection of premium salon services. a downturn in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items such as prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates and tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. in the event of an economic downturn, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected and we could experience lower than expected net sales, which could force us to delay or slow our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our gift-with-purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. recent volatility in the global oil markets has resulted in rising fuel and freight prices, which many shipping companies are passing on to their customers. our shipping costs have increased, and these costs may continue to increase. we may be unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers, which will reduce our profitability. additionally, recent increased demand for shipping capacity between the united states and asia will further increase our costs for merchandise sourced from asia, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers or lifestyle centers, which also accommodate other well-known destination retailers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants, while lifestyle centers typically contain a variety of high-end destination retailers but no large anchor stores. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in the lifestyle centers and power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center or lifestyle center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. we rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors were unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, our business and financial performance. we have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendors may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which has allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendors of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2007, merchandise supplied to ulta by our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered trademarks on our name, ulta, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under the fdc act may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, the fda may in the future determine to regulate our cosmetics or the ingredients included in our cosmetics as drugs. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta products, severely damage our brand 17 reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations: our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the fda, the ftc and state attorneys general in the united states. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with ftc or state regulations that cover our vendors products or our ulta product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior buildout of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes, which increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. 18 our ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings, or salon services which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, or ulta products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to promotional products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta branded products and technology. some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could hurt our profitability. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to pass those increases directly to customers or offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. 19 our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $150 million secured revolving credit facility, or credit facility (expandable under an accordion option to a maximum of $200 million), with a term expiring may 2011. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or the eurodollar rate plus 1.00% up to $100 million and 1.25% thereafter. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, restrict our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores, and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. we will need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy or continue our operations, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we will seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for capital expenditures and working capital consistent with our growth strategy. based on our current growth strategy, we expect it will be necessary to exercise the $50 million accordion option of our credit facility during fiscal 2008. in addition, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our belief as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. if financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may suffer. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. in addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 so that our management can periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by the time our annual report for fiscal 2008 is due and thereafter, which will require us to further document and make additional changes to our internal controls over financial reporting. as a result, we have been required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. in addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. we are currently subject to a consolidated securities class action lawsuit, the outcome of which is uncertain. we and certain of our current and former executive officers are defendants in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit in federal court. see item 3, legal proceedings for a more detailed description of these proceedings. this putative class action remains in its preliminary stages and it is not yet possible to determine the ultimate outcome. the plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit seek substantial damages. the legal and other costs associated with the defense of this action, the amount of time required to be spent by management and the board of directors on this matter and the ultimate outcome of the litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: 20 differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendors; announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of other factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, such as catalogs and newspaper inserts; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; actions by our existing or new competitors; and general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock would likely decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. a significant amount of our total outstanding shares have been restricted from immediate resale, but may be sold into the market in the near future. the large number of shares eligible for public sale or subject to rights requiring us to register them for public sale could depress the market price of our common stock. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market and the perception that these sales could occur may also depress the market price. the holders of a significant amount of our outstanding common stock are obligated, subject to certain exceptions, not to dispose of or hedge any of their common stock during 21 the 180-day period following the date of our prospectus filed with the securities and exchange commission on october 25, 2007. after the expiration of the lock-up period (on or about april 21, 2008), a significant amount these shares may be sold in the public market, subject to prior registration or qualification for an exemption from registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates, compliance with the volume restrictions of rule 144. sales of our common stock as restrictions end or pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. these sales also could cause our stock price to fall and make it more difficult for stockholders to sell shares of our common stock. our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us and they could delay, deter, or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. our principal stockholders own, in the aggregate, approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions and will have significant control over our management and policies. such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. in addition, the significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with controlling stockholders. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we have an interest rate swap agreement in place with a notional amount of $25.0 million which effectively converts variable rate debt to fixed rate debt at an interest rate of 5.11%. the interest rate swap reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as of february 2, 2008 and february 3, 2007 had a negative fair value of $1.2 million included in accrued liabilities and a positive fair value of $32,000 included in other assets, respectively. the interest rate swap is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of which is recorded as an unrecognized gain (loss) in other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders equity. our weighted average debt for fiscal 2007 was $56.9 million, adjusted for the $25.0 million hedged amount. a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would have resulted in a $0.6 million change to our interest expense for fiscal 2007.risk factors 14 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. the risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect our company. continued turbulence in global economic conditions and prolonged declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the 14 availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. in the second half of 2008, added concerns fueled by the united states government conservatorship of the federal home loan mortgage corporation and the federal national mortgage association, the declared bankruptcy of lehman brothers holdings inc., the united states government financial assistance to american international group inc., citibank, bank of america and other federal government interventions in the united states financial system led to increased market uncertainty and instability in both the united states and international capital and credit markets. these conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. as a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. current market and credit conditions could make it more difficult for developers and landlords to obtain the necessary credit to build new retail centers. a significant decrease in new retail center development could adversely affect our new store program and limit our future growth opportunities as long as the aforementioned conditions exist. continued turbulence in the united states and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. a further downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary beauty products and salon services, which could delay our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we offer a wide selection of beauty products and premium salon services. as the current economic downturn remains uncertain, our customers may become more apprehensive about the economy and further reduce their level of discretionary spending across all of our product categories including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. additionally, the ongoing impacts of the housing crisis, rising unemployment, financial market volatility, the availability of credit, and general consumer confidence may worsen and exacerbate current conditions. a decrease in spending due to lower consumer discretionary income or consumer confidence could adversely impact our net sales and operating results, and could force us to delay or slow our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our product vendors as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, internet businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand 15 recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the regions in which we operate, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. ms. kirby, our president and chief executive officer since december 1999, is of key importance to our business, including her relationships with our vendors and influence on our sales and marketing. if we lost ms. kirby services or if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of other key executive and buying personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ms. kirby has entered an agreement to remain employed with us through march 2011. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. during fiscal 2008, we opened 63 new stores. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future, and believe we have the long-term potential to grow our store base to over 1,000 stores in the united states. during fiscal 2008, the average investment required to open a typical new store was approximately $1.5 million. this continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently, have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance and slow our growth. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these 16 plans or cause us to incur costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we operate two distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. in order to support our recent and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, additional distribution centers may need to be added in the future. our failure to expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any significant interruption in the operations of our two distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 21,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our distribution infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base and fulfill customer orders from our e-commerce business. we have identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support recent and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed, including the failure of our warehouse management software system to operate as expected during the holiday season could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial information and credit card transactions, and our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders or engage in normal business activities. moreover, security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers private data, could result in liability, decrease customer confidence in our company, and weaken our ability to compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our e-commerce operations, while relatively small, are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our gift-with-purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and 17 deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers or lifestyle centers, which also accommodate other well-known destination retailers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants, while lifestyle centers typically contain a variety of high-end destination retailers but no large anchor stores. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in the lifestyle centers and power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center or lifestyle center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. this risk is more pronounced during the current severe economic downturn which has resulted in a number of national retailers filing for bankruptcy or closing stores due to depressed consumer spending levels. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. 18 we rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors were unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, our business and financial performance. we have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendors may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendors of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2008, merchandise supplied to ulta by our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta, and other marks incorporating that name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under the fdc act may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, the fda may in the future determine to regulate our cosmetics or the ingredients included in our cosmetics as drugs. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta products, severely 19 damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations: our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the fda, the ftc and state attorneys general in the united states. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with ftc or state regulations that cover our vendors products or our ulta product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior buildout of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which 20 we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes, which increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. our ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings, or salon services which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, or ulta products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta branded products and technology. some of our competitors 21 may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could hurt our profitability. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility, or credit facility, with a term expiring may 2011. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or the eurodollar rate plus 1.00% up to $100 million and 1.25% thereafter. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, restrict our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores, and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. in addition, when our current facility matures in may 2011, we may be unable to obtain similar terms on a new credit facility due to the uncertainty and volatility in the credit markets. we will need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy or continue our operations, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time we will seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for capital expenditures and working capital consistent with our growth strategy. in addition, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our belief as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. if financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may suffer. 22 failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. in addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 so that our management can periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. as a result, we have been required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. in addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. we are currently subject to a consolidated securities class action lawsuit, the outcome of which is uncertain. we and certain of our current and former executive officers are defendants in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit in federal court. see item 3, legal proceedings for a more detailed description of these proceedings. this putative class action remains in its preliminary stages and it is not yet possible to determine the ultimate outcome. the plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit seek substantial damages. the legal and other costs associated with the defense of this action, the amount of time required to be spent by management and the board of directors on this matter and the ultimate outcome of the litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendors; announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. 23 in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of other factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, such as catalogs and newspaper inserts; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our existing or new competitors. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock would likely decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us and they could delay, deter, or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action with which you might not agree. our principal stockholders own or control, in the aggregate, approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock. as a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions and will have significant influence over our management and policies. such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. in addition, the significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with stockholders holding such significant influence. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and 24 harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we have an interest rate swap agreement in place with a notional amount of $25.0 million which effectively converts variable rate debt to fixed rate debt at an interest rate of 5.11%. the interest rate swap reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as of january 31, 2009 and february 2, 2008 had a negative fair value of $1.0 million and $1.2 million, respectively, and is included in accrued liabilities. the interest rate swap is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of which is recorded as an unrecognized gain (loss) in other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders equity. our weighted average debt for fiscal 2008 was $83.0 million, adjusted for the $25.0 million hedged amount. a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would have resulted in a $0.8 million change to our interest expense for fiscal 2008. 43risk factors 13 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 qua ntitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not utilize the credit facility during fiscal 2011. the company had an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $25 million which was designated as a cash flow hedge. the agreement expired on january 31, 2010. the interest rate swap was recorded at fair value in fiscal 2009 and changes in market value related to the effective portion of the cash flow hedge was recorded as unrecognized gain or loss in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) section of the stockholders equity in the balance sheets.risk factors 12 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. the global economic crisis and volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets as well as declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. the global economic crisis and volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. these conditions have led to decreases in consumer spending across the economy. increases in the levels of unemployment, energy costs, healthcare costs and taxes, combined with tighter credit markets, reduced consumer confidence and other factors, contribute to the decline in consumer spending. while this decline has moderated, the level of consumer spending is not where it was prior to the global recession, and economic conditions could lead to further declines in consumer spending in the future. we offer a wide selection of beauty products and premium salon services. continued uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact levels of consumer discretionary spending across all of our product categories including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. additionally, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits. reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of inventory purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions, which is a source of capital for our borrowing and liquidity. this tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. while global credit and financial markets appear to be recovering from extreme disruptions experienced over the past few years, uncertainty about continuing economic stability remains. it is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, the extent to which they will continue to recover, if at all, and which aspects of our products or business may be adversely affected. current market and credit conditions could continue to make it more difficult for developers and landlords to obtain the necessary credit to build new retail centers. a significant decrease in new retail center development has adversely affected our new store program and could limit our future growth opportunities as long as the aforementioned conditions exist. continued turbulence in the united states and international markets and economies and declines in consumer spending may adversely affect our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 12 table of contents additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our product vendors as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry even when economic conditions are favorable. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, internet businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the regions in which we operate, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of other key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. effective february 21, 2013, carl s. rubin resigned from his position as president and chief executive officer and dennis k. eck, a current board member, is currently serving as interim chief executive officer until a 13 table of contents permanent replacement is identified. in addition, scott m. settersten served as acting chief financial officer and assistant secretary of the company from october 18, 2012 through march 12, 2013 at which time we announced his appointment as permanent chief financial officer and assistant secretary. we are in the process of completing a comprehensive search for a permanent chief executive officer, however there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and hire a qualified candidate in a timely manner. our ability to attract, select and hire a permanent chief executive officer candidate may prove difficult, take more time than anticipated, and be costly. this may require other senior management to divert part of their attention from their primary duties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. our inability to effectively manage and maintain our business through this chief executive officer transition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. during fiscal 2012, we opened 102 new stores. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future, and believe we have the long-term potential to grow our store base to approximately 1,200 stores in the united states. during fiscal 2012, the average investment required to open a typical new store was approximately $1.0 million. this continued expansion could place increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we operate three distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. in order to support our recent and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, additional distribution centers may need to be added in the future. our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 20,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base and fulfill customer orders from our e-commerce business. we have identified the need to 14 table of contents expand and upgrade our information systems to support recent and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial information and credit card transactions, and our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders or engage in normal business activities. moreover, security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers private data, could result in liability, decrease customer confidence in our company, and weaken our ability to compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems could materially affect our operations. we rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and capacity of these systems. information technology system failures, network disruptions or breaches of security could disrupt our operations, causing delays or cancellation of customer orders or impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results. an attack or other problem with our systems could also result in the disclosure of proprietary information about our business or confidential information concerning our customers or employees, which could result in significant damage to our business and our reputation. unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, associate or company information could damage out reputation, expose us to litigation and negatively impact our business. we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer and associate information as part of our normal course of business. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. despite the security measures we have in place, our systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events. any security breach of customer, associate or company confidential information could result in damage to our reputation and result in lost sales, litigation, fines, or additional investments to fix or replace the systems that were breached. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our gift-with-purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing 15 table of contents goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. this risk is more pronounced during the current economic downturn which has resulted in a number of national retailers filing for bankruptcy or closing stores due to depressed consumer spending levels. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. we rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors were to change their distribution model or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendors may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could 16 table of contents negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendors of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2012, merchandise supplied to ulta by our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales. there continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta, and other marks incorporating that name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply 17 table of contents with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, profitability and cash flows: in march 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the acts ) was passed and signed into law. this healthcare reform legislation significantly expands healthcare coverage to many uninsured individuals and to those already insured. due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation and the staggered implementation and uncertain timing of the regulations and lack of interpretive guidance, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the healthcare reform legislation on our business over the coming years. possible adverse effects include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. additionally, because significant provisions of the acts will become effective on various dates over the next several years, future changes could significantly impact any effects on our business that we previously anticipated. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the fda, the ftc and state attorneys general in the united states. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with ftc or state regulations that cover our vendors products or our ulta product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior buildout of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the 18 table of contents shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes, which increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings, or salon services which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, or ulta products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta branded products and technology. some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 19 table of contents increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring october 2016. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or libor plus 1.50% and the unused line fee is 0.225%. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. we may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. from time to time we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for capital expenditures and working capital consistent with our growth strategy. in addition, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our belief as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. if financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may suffer. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. in addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 so that our management can periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. as a result, we have been required to improve our 20 table of contents financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. in addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendors; announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of other factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; 21 table of contents cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, such as catalogs and newspaper inserts; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our existing or new competitors. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock would likely decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. there can be no assurance that we will declare dividends in the future. we paid a special cash dividend on may 15, 2012. any future dividend payments will be within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. we may not have sufficient liquidity in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. 22 table of contents our previously announced stock repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. on march 18, 2013, we announced that our board of directors had approved a stock repurchase program. under the program, we are authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise, at prices that the company deems appropriate and subject to market conditions, applicable law and other factors deemed relevant in the company sole discretion, up to an aggregate purchase price of $150 million. the timing and actual number of shares repurchased depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. the program does not obligate the company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time and any suspension or discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program effectiveness. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not utilize the credit facility during fiscal 2012. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. the health of the economy in the channels we serve may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in addition, the recent global economic crisis and volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and internationally. concerns over inflation, employment, tax laws, energy costs, healthcare costs, geopolitical issues, terrorism, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market, sovereign and private banking systems, sovereign deficits and increasing debt burdens and the real estate and other financial markets in the u.s. and europe have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the u.s. and certain foreign economies. we appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer an extensive selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and premium salon services. continued uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items across all of our product categories, including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. in the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected and we could experience lower than expected net sales. in addition, the recent global economic crisis and volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while these declines have moderated, the level of consumer spending is not where it was prior to the global recession, and economic conditions could lead to further declines in consumer spending in the future. additionally, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits. reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of merchandise purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. recent economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions, which is a source of capital for our borrowing and liquidity. this tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. while global credit and financial markets appear to be recovering from extreme disruptions experienced over the past few years, uncertainty about continuing economic stability remains. it is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, the extent to which they will continue to recover, if at all, and which aspects of our products or business may be adversely affected. current market and credit conditions could continue to make it more difficult for developers and landlords to obtain the necessary credit to build new retail centers. a significant decrease in new retail center development could limit our future growth opportunities as long as the aforementioned conditions exist. additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our product vendors as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a 12 table of contents number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry even when economic conditions are favorable. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, internet businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the breadth of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the regions in which we operate, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. mary dillon was appointed chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors effective july 1, 2013 and scott settersten was appointed chief financial officer and assistant secretary effective march 12, 2013. if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. 13 table of contents our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, such as catalogs and newspaper inserts; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our existing or new competitors. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock would likely decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to sustain our growth plans and successfully develop and implement our long-range strategic and financial plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in addition, we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to implement our long-range strategic and financial plan and successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. our senior management is currently evaluating our long-range strategic and financial plan to align and prioritize our growth strategies, as well as additional investments that will be needed to support continued and future growth. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our growth plan or long-range strategic initiatives, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. during fiscal 2013, we opened 127 new stores. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future, and believe we have the long-term potential to grow our store base to approximately 1,200 stores in the united states. during fiscal 2013, the average investment required to open a typical new store was approximately $1.0 million. our continued expansion places increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational, supply-chain and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we operate three distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. in order to support our recent and expected future 14 table of contents growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, additional distribution centers may need to be added in the future. we are embarking on a multi-year supply chain project beginning in 2014 which will include adding additional capacity, including a fourth distribution center expected to open in 2015, and system improvements to support expanded omni-channel capabilities. our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 20,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base and fulfill customer orders from our e-commerce business. we have identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support recent and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial information and credit card transactions, and our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders or engage in normal business activities. moreover, security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers private data, could result in liability, decrease customer confidence in our company, and weaken our ability to compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and capacity of these systems. information technology system failures, network disruptions or breaches of security could disrupt our operations, causing delays or cancellation of customer orders or impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results. an attack or other problem with our systems could also result in the disclosure of proprietary information about our business or confidential information concerning our customers or employees, which could result in significant damage to our business and our reputation. 15 table of contents cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we employ it security and security-related products and services as well as a full-time staff to proactively monitor our systems and networks. we maintain continual vigilance in regard to the protection of sensitive information and are in compliance with all applicable data protection laws and regulations. unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, associate or company information could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation and negatively impact our business. we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer and associate information as part of our normal course of business. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. despite the security measures we have in place, our systems and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events. any security breach of customer, associate or company confidential information could result in damage to our reputation and result in lost sales, litigation, fines, or additional investments to fix or replace the systems that were breached. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our e-commerce business may be unsuccessful. we offer many of our beauty products for sale through our website. as a result, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand and develop our internet operations, website and software and other related operational systems. although we believe that our participation in both e-commerce and physical store sales is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, supporting product offerings through both of these channels could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. for example, if our e-commerce business successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing customers, rather than new customers, who choose to purchase products from us online rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. in addition, offering different products through each channel could cause conflicts and cause some of our current or potential internet customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. in addition, offering products through our internet channel could cause some of our current or potential vendors to consider competing internet offerings of their products either on their own or through competing distributors. as we continue to grow our e-commerce business, the impact of attracting existing rather than new customers, of conflicts between product offerings online and through our stores, and of opening up our channels to increased internet competition could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows, including future growth. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our gift-with-purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports 16 table of contents from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional or global economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. this risk is more pronounced during the recent economic downturn which has resulted in a number of national retailers filing for bankruptcy or closing stores due to depressed consumer spending levels. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. we rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors were to change their distribution model or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. our business depends to a significant extent on the 17 table of contents willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendors may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendors of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2013, merchandise supplied to ulta by our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 51% of our net sales. there continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta, and other marks incorporating that name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate 18 table of contents cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows: in march 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the acts ) was passed and signed into law. this healthcare reform legislation significantly expands healthcare coverage to many uninsured individuals and to those already insured. due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation and the staggered implementation and uncertain timing of the regulations and lack of interpretive guidance, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the healthcare reform legislation on our business over the coming years. possible adverse effects include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. for example, the patient protection and affordable care act has imposed new mandates on employers, including a requirement effective january 1, 2014 (which has been extended to january 1, 2015 due to a recent executive order) that employers with 50 or more full-time employees provide credible health insurance to employees or pay a financial penalty. given our current health plan design, and assuming the law is implemented without significant changes, these mandates could materially increase our costs. moreover, if we choose to opt out of offering health insurance to our employees, we may become less attractive as an employer and it may be harder for us to compete for qualified employees. additionally, because significant provisions of the acts will become effective on various dates over the next several years, future changes could significantly impact any effects on our business that we previously anticipated. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the fda, the ftc and state attorneys general in the united states. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with ftc or state regulations that cover our vendors products or our ulta product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. 19 table of contents as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior build out of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes, which increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings, or salon services which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, or ulta products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be 20 table of contents prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta branded products and technology. some of our competitors may be able to bear the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we expect the net investment to open a new store in 2014 to increase due to increases in material and labor costs resulting from a stronger commercial and residential building environment compared to the last several years. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring in december 2018. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or libor plus 1.50% and the unused line fee is 0.20%. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. 21 table of contents we may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. from time to time we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for capital expenditures and working capital consistent with our growth strategy. in addition, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our belief as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. if financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may suffer. failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. in addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 so that our management can periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. as a result, we have been required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. in addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendors; announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. 22 table of contents in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. use of social media may adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. there has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we also use social media platforms as marketing tools. for example, we maintain facebook, twitter and pinterest accounts. as laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows, or subject us to fines or other penalties. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. 23 table of contents litigation costs and the outcome of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and any loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses. from time to time we may be subject to litigation claims through the ordinary course of our business operations regarding, but not limited to, employment matters, security of consumer and employee personal information, contractual relations with suppliers, marketing and infringement of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. litigation to defend ourselves against claims by third parties, or to enforce any rights that we may have against third parties, may be necessary, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we establish accruals for potential liability arising from legal proceedings when potential liability is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on currently available information. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. in addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. an unfavorable resolution of a legal proceeding or claim could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. management does not believe the nature of any pending legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. however, management assessment may change at any time based upon the discovery of facts or circumstances that are presently not known to us. therefore, there can be no assurance that any pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. there can be no assurance that we will declare dividends in the future. we paid a special cash dividend on may 15, 2012. any future dividend payments will be within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. we may not have sufficient liquidity in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. our previously announced stock repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. on march 18, 2013, we announced that our board of directors had approved a stock repurchase program. under the program, we are authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise, at prices that the company deems appropriate and subject to market conditions, applicable law and other factors deemed relevant in the company sole discretion, up to an aggregate purchase price of $150 million. the timing and actual number of shares repurchased depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. the program does not obligate the company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time and any suspension or discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program effectiveness. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not utilize the credit facility during fiscal 2013, 2012 or 2011.risk factors 13 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. the health of the economy in the channels we serve may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in addition, the recent global economic crisis and volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and internationally. concerns over inflation, employment, tax laws, energy costs, healthcare costs, geopolitical issues, terrorism, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market, sovereign and private banking systems, sovereign deficits and increasing debt burdens and the real estate and other financial markets in the u.s. and europe have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the u.s. and certain foreign economies. we appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer an extensive selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and premium salon services. continued uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items across all of our product categories, including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. in the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected and we could experience lower than expected net sales. in addition, the recent global economic crisis and volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while these declines have moderated, the level of consumer spending is not where it was prior to the global recession, and economic conditions could lead to further declines in consumer spending in the future. additionally, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits. reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of merchandise purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. recent economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions, which is a source of capital for our borrowing and liquidity. this tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. these factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending. while global credit and financial markets appear to be recovering from extreme disruptions experienced over the past few years, uncertainty about continuing economic stability remains. it is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, the extent to which they will continue to recover, if at all, and which aspects of our products or business may be adversely affected. current market and credit conditions could continue to make it more difficult for developers and landlords to obtain the necessary credit to build new retail centers. a significant decrease in new retail center development could limit our future growth opportunities as long as the aforementioned conditions exist. 13 table of contents additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our product vendors as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, e-commerce businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the breadth of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our customers shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur excess costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we operate three distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. in order to support our recent and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, additional distribution centers will be added in the future. in 2014, we began a multi-year supply chain project, which includes adding additional capacity, including two additional distribution centers expected to open in 2015 and 2016, and system improvements to support expanded omni-channel capabilities. our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 20,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. despite our security measures, our information 14 table of contents technology systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we employ it security and security-related products and services as well as a full-time staff to proactively monitor our systems and networks. we maintain continual vigilance in regard to the protection of sensitive information and are in compliance with all applicable data protection laws and regulations. unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, associate or company information could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation and negatively impact our business. we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer and associate information as part of our normal course of business. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. despite the security measures we have in place, our systems and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors or other similar events. any security breach of customer, associate or company confidential information could result in damage to our reputation and result in lost sales, litigation, fines or additional investments to fix or replace the systems that were breached. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the consumer, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. mary dillon was appointed chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors effective july 1, 2013 and scott settersten was appointed chief financial officer and assistant secretary effective march 12, 2013. if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. 15 table of contents our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our existing or new competitors. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock may decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our e-commerce business may be unsuccessful. we offer many of our beauty products for sale through our website. as a result, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand and develop our internet operations, website and software and other related operational systems. although we believe that our participation in both e-commerce and physical store sales is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, supporting product offerings through both of these channels could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. for example, if our e-commerce business successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing customers, rather than new customers, who choose to purchase products from us online rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. in addition, offering different products through each channel could cause conflicts and cause some of our current or potential internet customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. in addition, offering products through our internet channel could cause some of our current or potential vendors to consider competing internet offerings of their products either on their own or through competing distributors. as we continue to grow our e-commerce business, the impact of attracting existing rather than new customers, of conflicts between product offerings online and through our stores and of opening up our channels to increased internet competition could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows, including future growth. we may not be able to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic and financial plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in addition, we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to implement our long-range strategic and financial plans and successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. there can be no assurance that 16 table of contents we will be successful in implementing our growth plans or long-range strategic imperatives, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future. our continued expansion places increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational, supply-chain and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing store base and fulfill customer orders from our e-commerce business. we have identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support recent and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial information and credit card transactions and our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders or engage in normal business activities. moreover, security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including leaks of customers private data, could result in liability, decrease customer confidence in our company and weaken our ability to compete in the marketplace, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta brand, product offerings and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions. our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and capacity of these systems. information technology system failures, network disruptions or breaches of security could disrupt our operations, causing delays or cancellation of customer orders or impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results. an attack or other problem with our systems could also result in the disclosure of proprietary information about our business or confidential information concerning our customers or employees, which could result in significant damage to our business and our reputation. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our gifts with purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, 17 table of contents tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional or global economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may respond by increasing markdowns, initiating marketing promotions, or transferring product to other stores to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. this risk is more pronounced during the recent economic downturn which has resulted in a number of national retailers filing for bankruptcy or closing stores due to depressed consumer spending levels. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. we rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors were to change their distribution model or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we have no long-term supply agreements with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendors. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendors may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing 18 table of contents popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendors of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2014, merchandise supplied to ulta by our top ten vendors accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales. there continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta, and other marks incorporating that name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gifts with purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta, including ulta branded products and gifts with purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of 19 table of contents our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in march 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the acts ) was passed and signed into law. this healthcare reform legislation significantly expands healthcare coverage to many uninsured individuals and to those already insured. due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation and the staggered implementation and uncertain timing of the regulations and lack of interpretive guidance, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the healthcare reform legislation on our business over the coming years. possible adverse effects include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct business. for example, the patient protection and affordable care act has imposed new mandates on employers, including a requirement effective january 1, 2014 (which has been extended to january 1, 2015 due to a recent executive order) that employers with 50 or more full-time employees provide credible health insurance to employees or pay a financial penalty. given our current health plan design, and assuming the law is implemented without significant changes, these mandates could materially increase our costs. moreover, if we choose to opt out of offering health insurance to our employees, we may become less attractive as an employer and it may be harder for us to compete for qualified employees. additionally, because significant provisions of the acts will become effective on various dates over the next several years, future changes could significantly impact any effects on our business that we previously anticipated. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the fda, the ftc and state attorneys general in the united states. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with ftc or state regulations that cover our vendors products or our ulta product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords 20 table of contents generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior build out of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes, which increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits and damage our public reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings, or salon services which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, or ulta products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the 21 table of contents european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta branded products and technology. some of our competitors may be able to bear the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring in december 2018. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or libor plus 1.50% and the unused line fee is 0.20%. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. we may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. from time to time we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for capital expenditures and working capital consistent with our growth strategy. in addition, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our belief as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. if financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may suffer. 22 table of contents failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses. reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated growth are likely to place a strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. in addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 so that our management can periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. as a result, we have been required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such improvements. if our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. in addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital. the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendors; announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. use of social media may adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. there has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites and other forms of internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be 23 table of contents posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we also use social media platforms as marketing tools. for example, we maintain facebook, twitter and pinterest accounts. as laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows or subject us to fines or other penalties. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. litigation costs and the outcome of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and any loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses. from time to time, we may be subject to litigation claims through the ordinary course of our business operations regarding, but not limited to, employment matters, security of consumer and employee personal information, contractual relations with suppliers, marketing and infringement of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. litigation to defend ourselves against claims by third parties, or to enforce any rights that we may have against third parties, may be necessary, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we establish accruals for potential liability arising from legal proceedings when potential liability is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on currently available information. we may still incur legal costs 24 table of contents for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. in addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. an unfavorable resolution of a legal proceeding or claim could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. management does not believe the nature of any pending legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. however, management assessment may change at any time based upon the discovery of facts or circumstances that are presently not known to us. therefore, there can be no assurance that any pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. there can be no assurance that we will declare dividends in the future. we paid a special cash dividend on may 15, 2012. any future dividend payments will be within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. we may not have sufficient liquidity in the future to pay dividends on our common stock. our previously announced stock repurchase program, and any subsequent stock purchase program put in place from time to time, could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. we may have in place from time to time, a stock repurchase program. any such stock repurchase program adopted will not obligate the company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under any such stock repurchase program depends on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. repurchases pursuant to any such stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program effectiveness. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not utilize the credit facility during fiscal 2014, 2013 or 2012. the interest expense recognized in our statement of income represents unused fees associated with the credit facility. interest expense is offset by interest income from short-term investments with maturities of twelve months or less from the date of purchase.risk factors 11 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. the health of the economy in the channels we serve may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and internationally. we appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer an extensive selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and premium salon services. uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items across all of our product categories, including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. in the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected and we could experience lower than expected net sales. in addition, the continued volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while these declines have moderated, the level of consumer spending is not where it was prior to the global recession, and economic conditions could lead to further declines in consumer spending in the future. additionally, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits. reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of merchandise purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our vendor partners as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, e-commerce businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the breadth of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our guests shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 11 table of contents any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 20,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential guest, employee, company and/or business partners information, damage our reputation and expose us to liability, which could negatively impact our business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process and store sensitive and confidential data, including our proprietary business information and that of our guests, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our guests and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. despite the security measures we have in place and continual vigilance in regard to the protection of sensitive information, our systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, attacks by hackers, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors or other similar events. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure and the performance of our newly opened and to be opened distribution centers may not be adequate to support our historical growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur excess costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we currently operate four distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta beauty retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. in 2014, we began a multi-year supply chain project, which focuses on, among other things, adding capacity and system improvements to support expanded omni-channel capabilities. in order to support our historical and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, it is likely additional distribution centers will be added in the future. we opened our fourth distribution center in august 2015 and expect to open our fifth in 2016. our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores and the performance of our newly opened distribution center and our distribution center to be opened in 2016 could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales may decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; 12 table of contents translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the consumer, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our existing or new competitors. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock may decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our e-commerce business may be unsuccessful. we offer most of our beauty products for sale through our website. as a result, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand and develop our internet operations, website and software and other related operational systems. although we believe that our participation in both e-commerce and physical store sales is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new 13 table of contents customers, supporting product offerings through both of these channels could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. for example, if our e-commerce business successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing guests, rather than new guests, who choose to purchase products from us online rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. in addition, offering different products through each channel could cause conflicts and cause some of our current or potential internet customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. in addition, offering products through our internet channel could cause some of our current or potential vendors to consider competing internet offerings of their products either on their own or through competing distributors. as we continue to grow our e-commerce business, the impact of attracting existing rather than new guests, of conflicts between product offerings online and through our stores and of opening up our channels to increased internet competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we may not be able to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic and financial plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in addition, we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to implement our long-range strategic and financial plans and successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our growth plans or long-range strategic imperatives, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future. our continued expansion places increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational, supply-chain and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ, as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems or any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems, including management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions, to effectively manage our business. we have also identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support historical and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could cause delays or cancellation of customer orders or impede the manufacture or shipment of products, the processing of transactions, our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders and/or the reporting of financial results. our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta beauty marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta beauty brand, product offerings and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our ulta branded product components and gifts with purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use 14 table of contents overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional or global economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we may respond by increasing markdowns, initiating marketing promotions or transferring product to other stores to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could, in the future, decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. we rely on our good relationships with vendor partners to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendor partners were to change their distribution model or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we have no long-term supply agreements with vendor partners and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendor partners. our business depends to a significant extent on the 15 table of contents willingness and ability of our vendor partners to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendor partners may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendor partners, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendor partners of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2015, merchandise supplied to ulta beauty by our top ten vendor partners accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales. there continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendor partners, or by any of our other vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta, all things beauty, all in one place tm and other marks incorporating our name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including ulta branded products and gifts with purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including the ulta beauty collection and ulta branded gifts with purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 16 table of contents we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the acts) was signed into law in 2010. this healthcare reform legislation significantly expanded healthcare coverage and future changes could significantly impact our business. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta branded products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including fda, ftc, cpsc and state ags. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta branded products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties, claims, or product recalls, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta branded products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with ftc or state requirements when we advertise our products (including prices) or services, or engage in other promotional activities, in digital (including social media), television or print may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior build out of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire 17 table of contents inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. any such increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our ulta branded products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta branded products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings or salon services, which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, and/or ulta branded products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta branded products and technology. some of our competitors may be able to bear the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 18 table of contents increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which could reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring in december 2018. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or london interbank offered rate (libor) plus 1.50% and the unused line fee is 0.20%. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. the market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price or at all. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendor partners; announcements by us, our vendor partners or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; 19 table of contents recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. use of social media may adversely impact our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. there has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites and other forms of internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we also use social media platforms as marketing tools. for example, we maintain facebook, twitter and pinterest accounts. as laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows or subject us to fines or other penalties. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. 20 table of contents litigation costs and the outcome of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and any loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses. from time to time, we are subject to litigation claims in the ordinary course of our business operations regarding, but not limited to, employment matters, security of consumer and employee personal information, contractual relations with suppliers, marketing and infringement of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. litigation to defend ourselves against claims by third parties, or to enforce any rights that we may have against third parties, may be necessary, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we establish accruals for potential liability arising from legal proceedings when potential liability is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on currently available information. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. in addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. an unfavorable resolution of a legal proceeding or claim could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. management does not believe the nature of any pending legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. however, management assessment may change at any time based upon the discovery of facts or circumstances that are presently not known to us. therefore, there can be no assurance that any pending or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. there can be no assurance that we will declare dividends in the future. we paid a special cash dividend on may 15, 2012. any future dividend payments will be within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. our previously announced stock repurchase programs, and any subsequent stock purchase program put in place from time to time, could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. we may have in place from time to time, a stock repurchase program. any such stock repurchase program adopted will not obligate the company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under any such stock repurchase program depends on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. we may effect repurchases under any stock repurchase program from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, including accelerated stock repurchase arrangements. repurchases pursuant to any such stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program effectiveness. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not utilize the credit facility during fiscal 2015, 2014 or 2013. the interest expense recognized in our statement of income represents unused fees associated with the credit facility. interest expense is offset by interest income from short-term investments with maturities of twelve months or less from the date of purchase.risk factors 11 risk factors investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k before making an investment decision. if any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future growth could suffer. in these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. the health of the economy in the channels we serve may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and internationally. we appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer an extensive selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and premium salon services. uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items across all of our product categories, including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. in the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected and we could experience lower than expected net sales. in addition, the continued volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. while these declines have moderated, the level of consumer spending is not where it was prior to the global recession, and economic conditions could lead to further declines in consumer spending in the future. additionally, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits. reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of merchandise purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our vendor partners as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, e-commerce businesses, catalog retailers and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the breadth of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our guests shopping experience and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 11 table of contents cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential guest, employee, company and/or business partners information, damage our reputation and expose us to liability, which could negatively impact our business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process and store sensitive and confidential data, including our proprietary business information and that of our guests, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our guests and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. despite the security measures we have in place and continual vigilance in regard to the protection of sensitive information, our systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, attacks by hackers, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors or other similar events. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and actions by our existing or new competitors. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock may decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, selected quarterly financial data (unaudited), and item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales may decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; 12 table of contents translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the consumer, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure and the performance of our newly opened and to be opened distribution centers may not be adequate to support our historical growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur excess costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we currently operate five distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta beauty retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce business. in 2014, we began a multi-year supply chain project, which focused on, among other things, adding capacity and system improvements to support expanded omni-channel capabilities. in order to support our historical and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, it is likely additional distribution centers will be added in the future. we opened our fourth and fifth distribution centers in 2015 and 2016 and expect to open our sixth distribution center in 2018. our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores and the performance of our newly opened distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 20,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our e-commerce business may be unsuccessful. we offer most of our beauty products for sale through our ulta.com website. as a result, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract 13 table of contents and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand and develop our internet operations, website and software and other related operational systems. although we believe that our participation in both e-commerce and physical store sales is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, supporting product offerings through both of these channels could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. for example, if our e-commerce business successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing guests, rather than new guests, who choose to purchase products from us online rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. in addition, offering different products through each channel could cause conflicts and cause some of our current or potential internet customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. offering products through our internet channel could also cause some of our current or potential vendors to consider competing internet offerings of their products either on their own or through competing distributors. as we continue to grow our e-commerce business, the impact of attracting existing rather than new guests, conflicts between product offerings online and through our stores and opening up our channels to increased internet competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we may not be able to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic and financial plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in addition, we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to implement our long-range strategic and financial plans and successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our growth plans or long-range strategic imperatives, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future. our continued expansion places increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational, supply-chain and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ, as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems or any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems, including management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions, to effectively manage our business. we have also identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support historical and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could cause delays or cancellation of customer orders or impede the manufacture or shipment of products, the processing of transactions, our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders and/or the reporting of financial results. our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta beauty marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta beauty brand, product offerings and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. 14 table of contents increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of some of our merchandise, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our ulta beauty branded product components and gifts with purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional or global economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we may respond by increasing markdowns, initiating marketing promotions or transferring product to other stores to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could, in the future, decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. 15 table of contents we rely on our good relationships with vendor partners to purchase prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendor partners were to change their distribution model or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we have no long-term supply agreements with vendor partners and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendor partners. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendor partners to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendor partners may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendor partners, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendor partners of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2016, merchandise supplied to ulta beauty by our top ten vendor partners accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales. there continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendor partners, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta beauty, ulta, all things beauty, all in one place tm and other marks incorporating our name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta beauty branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including ulta beauty branded products and gifts with purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including the ulta beauty collection and ulta beauty branded gifts with purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta beauty products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or 16 table of contents efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta beauty products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta beauty branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the acts) was signed into law in 2010. this healthcare reform legislation significantly expanded healthcare coverage and future changes could significantly impact our business. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors products and our ulta beauty branded products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including fda, ftc, cpsc and various state and local agencies, such as state ags and district attorneys. if we, our vendors or the manufacturers of our ulta beauty branded products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties, claims or product recalls, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta beauty branded products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with federal, state or local requirements when we advertise our products (including prices) or services, or engage in other promotional activities, in digital (including social media), television or print may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. 17 table of contents as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior build out of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. any such increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. our ulta beauty branded products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta beauty branded products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings or salon services, which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims and the outcome of such litigation, proceedings or claims, including possible fines and penalties, could have a material adverse effect on our business and any loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses. from time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims in the ordinary course of our business operations regarding, but not limited to, employment matters, security of consumer and employee personal information, contractual relations with suppliers, marketing and infringement of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. litigation to defend ourselves against claims by third parties, or to enforce any rights that we may have against third parties, may be necessary, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. we establish accruals for potential liability arising from litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims when potential liability is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on currently available information. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. in addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the 18 table of contents aggregate. an unfavorable resolution of litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. specifically, our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, and/or ulta beauty branded products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta beauty branded products and technology. some of our competitors may be able to bear the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. use of social media may adversely impact our reputation. there has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites and other forms of internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we also use social media platforms as marketing tools. for example, we maintain facebook, twitter, instagram and pinterest accounts. as laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 19 table of contents our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring in december 2018. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at the prime rate or london interbank offered rate (libor) plus 1.50% and the unused line fee is 0.20%. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. the market price for our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendor partners; announcements by us, our vendor partners or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which could reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability and cash flows. 20 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights agreement and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. as permitted by our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, we have a stockholder rights agreement, sometimes known as a poison pill, which provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to holders of common stock. in the event of a takeover attempt, this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer stake. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights agreement and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. there can be no assurance that we will declare dividends in the future. we paid a special cash dividend on may 15, 2012. any future dividend payments will be within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. our previously announced stock repurchase programs, and any subsequent stock purchase program put in place from time to time, could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. we may have in place from time to time, a stock repurchase program. any such stock repurchase program adopted will not obligate the company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under any such stock repurchase program depends on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements and other market conditions. we may effect repurchases under any stock repurchase program from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, including accelerated stock repurchase arrangements. repurchases pursuant to any such stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for 21 table of contents our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program effectiveness. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, lease obligations, inventory valuation, vendor allowances, impairment of long-lived tangible assets, customer loyalty program, share-based compensation, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could negatively affect our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. we are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. following the reorganization, we are a holding company and we do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries. our operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to repurchase stock or pay dividends (if declared by our board of directors in the future) is dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us and them to make scheduled payments on our obligations will depend on their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not utilize the credit facility during fiscal 2016, 2015 or 2014. the interest expense recognized in our statement of income represents unused fees associated with the credit facility. interest expense is offset by interest income from short-term investments with maturities of twelve months or less from the date of purchase.risk factors 10 risk factor the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future growth. we could also be affected by additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the united states, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k before making an investment in our common stock. the health of the economy in the channels we serve may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and internationally. we appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer an extensive selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and premium salon services. uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items across all of our product categories, including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. in the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected and we could experience lower than expected net sales. in addition, a general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our vendor partners as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. additionally, volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets in the recent global 10 table of contents recession had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth, which, in turn, led to declines in consumer spending. reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of merchandise purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, online capabilities of national retailers, pure-play e-commerce companies, catalog retailers, and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers, and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the breadth of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our guests shopping experience, and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing, and other resources and therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition, or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential guest, employee, company and/or business partners information, damage our reputation, and expose us to liability, which could negatively impact our business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, and store sensitive and confidential data, including our proprietary business information and that of our guests, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our guests and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information. despite the security measures we have in place and continual vigilance in regard to the protection of sensitive information, our systems and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, attacks by hackers, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products, and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities; 11 table of contents seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; actions by our existing or new competitors; and hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, earthquakes, mudslides, and other natural disasters. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock may decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements, selected quarterly financial data (unaudited), and item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales may decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product, and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the consumer, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts, and abilities of key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate, and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate, and retain additional qualified executive, managerial, and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating, and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure and the performance of our newly opened and to be opened distribution centers may not be adequate to support our historical growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur excess costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we currently operate five distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta beauty retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce platform. in 2014, we began a multi-year supply chain project, which focused on, among other things, adding capacity and system improvements to support expanded omni-channel capabilities. in order to support our historical and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, it is likely additional distribution centers will be added in the future. we opened our fourth and fifth distribution centers in 2015 and 2016, respectively, and expect to open our sixth distribution center in 2018. our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in 12 table of contents stores and the performance of our newly opened distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 20,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our e-commerce platform may be unsuccessful. we offer most of our beauty products for sale through our ulta.com website. as a result, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand, and develop our internet operations, website and software, and other related operational systems. although we believe that our participation in both e-commerce and physical store sales is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, supporting product offerings through both of these channels could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. for example, if our e-commerce platform successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing guests, rather than new guests, who choose to purchase products from us online rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. in addition, offering different products through each channel could cause conflicts and cause some of our current or potential internet customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. offering products through our internet channel could also cause some of our current or potential vendors to consider competing internet offerings of their products either on their own or through competing distributors. as we continue to grow our e-commerce platform, the impact of attracting existing rather than new guests, conflicts between product offerings online and through our stores, and opening up our channels to increased competition from pure-play e-commerce companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may not be able to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic and financial plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. in addition, we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to implement our long-range strategic and financial plans and successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our growth plans or long-range strategic imperatives, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future. our continued expansion places increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational, supply-chain, and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ, as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems, and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. 13 table of contents we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems or any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems, including management, supply chain and financial information, and various other processes and transactions, to effectively manage our business. we have also identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support historical and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record, and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could cause delays or cancellation of customer orders or impede the manufacture or shipment of products, the processing of transactions, our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders, and/or the reporting of financial results. our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website serves as an effective extension of ulta beauty marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts, and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta beauty brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to website downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment, or receipt of some of our merchandise, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our ulta beauty branded product components and gifts with purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs, or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes, and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas, or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment, or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional or global economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may 14 table of contents respond by increasing markdowns, initiating marketing promotions, or transferring product to other stores to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores, or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted, or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could, in the future, decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. we rely on our good relationships with vendor partners to purchase prestige, mass, and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendor partners were to change their distribution model, or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we have no long-term supply agreements with vendor partners and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendor partners. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendor partners to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendor partners may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendor partners, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendor partners of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, merchandise supplied to ulta beauty by our top ten vendor partners accounted for approximately 64% of our net sales. there continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendor partners, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on our name, ulta beauty, ulta, all things beauty. all in one place. tm and other marks incorporating our name, copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com, and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta beauty branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing, and other aspects of our business. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, or other proprietary rights for any reason (including any cybersecurity incident that results in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights), or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. 15 table of contents if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including ulta beauty branded products and gifts with purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including the ulta beauty collection and ulta beauty branded gifts with purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta beauty products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta beauty products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores, or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta beauty branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the acts) was signed into law in 2010. this healthcare reform legislation significantly expanded healthcare coverage and future changes could significantly impact our business. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale, and storage of our vendors products and our ulta beauty branded products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including fda, ftc, cpsc, and various state and local agencies, such as state ags and district attorneys. if we, our vendors, or the manufacturers of our ulta beauty branded products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to 16 table of contents significant penalties, claims, or product recalls, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta beauty branded products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with federal, state, or local requirements when we advertise our products (including prices) or services, or engage in other promotional activities, in digital (including social media), television, or print may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. our ulta beauty branded products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta beauty branded products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings or salon services, which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand, or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. use of social media may adversely impact our reputation. there has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we also use social media platforms as marketing tools. for example, we maintain facebook, twitter, instagram, and pinterest accounts. as laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees, or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims and the outcome of such litigation, proceedings or claims, including possible fines and penalties, could have a material adverse effect on our business and any loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses. from time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims in the ordinary course of our business operations regarding, but not limited to, employment matters, security of consumer and employee personal information, contractual relations with suppliers, marketing and infringement of trademarks, and other intellectual property rights. litigation to defend ourselves against claims by third parties, or to enforce any rights that we may have against third parties, may be necessary, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we establish accruals for potential liability arising from litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims when potential liability is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on currently available information. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. in addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. an unfavorable resolution of litigation or other legal or 17 table of contents regulatory proceedings or claims could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. specifically, our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, and/or ulta beauty branded products, or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright, or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta beauty branded products and technology. some of our competitors may be able to bear the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. natural disasters or other catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornados, wildfires, earthquakes, and mudslides, as well as acts of violence or terrorism, could result in physical damage to our properties, the temporary closure of stores and/or distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products (or a substantial increase in the cost of those products) from domestic or foreign suppliers, the temporary disruption in the delivery of goods both to and from our distribution centers (or a substantial increase in the cost of those deliveries), the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and/or the temporary reduction in visits to stores by customers. accordingly, if one or more natural disasters and/or acts of violence or terrorism were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows or may require us to incur increased costs. as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities and states. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior build out of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a 18 table of contents timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. any such increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions, and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $400 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring in august 2022. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at either a base rate or the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus 1.25% and the unused line fee is 0.20% per annum. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. the market price for our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendor partners; announcements by us, our vendor partners, or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. 19 table of contents in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers, and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. increases in costs of mailing, paper, and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which could reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. there can be no assurance that we will declare dividends in the future. any dividend payments will be within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, capital expenditure requirements, contractual restrictions, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. our previously announced stock repurchase programs, and any subsequent stock purchase program put in place from time to time, could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. we may have in place from time to time, a stock repurchase program. any such stock repurchase program adopted will not obligate the company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under any such stock repurchase program depends on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. we may 20 table of contents affect repurchases under any stock repurchase program from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, including accelerated stock repurchase arrangements. repurchases pursuant to any such stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program effectiveness. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, lease obligations, inventory valuation, vendor allowances, impairment of long-lived tangible assets, customer loyalty program, share-based compensation, tax matters, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could negatively affect our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. we are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. we are a holding company and we do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries. our operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to repurchase stock or pay dividends (if declared by our board of directors in the future) is dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us and them to make scheduled payments on our obligations will depend on their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not have any outstanding borrowings on our credit facility as of february 3, 2018, january 28, 2017, or january 30, 2016. interest income from cash equivalents and short-term investments with maturities of twelve months or less from the date of purchase is partially offset by interest expense, which represents interest from borrowings and various fees associated with the credit facility.risk factors 10 risk factor the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future growth. we could also be affected by additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the united states, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k before making an investment in our common stock. the health of the economy in the channels we serve may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and internationally. we appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer an extensive selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and premium salon services. uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items across all of our product categories, including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. in the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected and we could experience lower than expected net sales. in addition, a general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our vendor partners as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. additionally, volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets in the recent global recession had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth, which, in turn, led to declines in consumer spending. reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of merchandise purchased 10 table of contents by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, online capabilities of national retailers, pure-play e-commerce companies, catalog retailers, and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers, and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the breadth of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our guests shopping experience, and the convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing, and other resources and therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition, or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; actions by our existing or new competitors; and hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, earthquakes, mudslides, and other natural disasters. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock may decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements, selected quarterly financial data (unaudited), and item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure and the performance of our distribution centers may not be adequate to support our historical growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur excess costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we currently operate five distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta beauty retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce platform. in 2014, we began a multi-year supply chain project, which focused on, among other things, adding capacity and system improvements to support expanded omnichannel capabilities. in order to support our historical and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, it is likely additional distribution centers or fast fulfillment centers (e-commerce only) will be 11 table of contents added in the future. our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores and the performance of our distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 25,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our e-commerce platform may be unsuccessful. we offer most of our beauty products for sale through our ulta.com website. as a result, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand, and develop our internet operations, website, mobile applications and software, and other related operational systems. although we believe that our omnichannel participation is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, supporting product offerings through these channels could create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. for example, if our e-commerce platform successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing guests, rather than new guests, who choose to purchase products from us online or through our mobile applications rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. in addition, offering different products through each channel could cause conflicts and cause some of our current or potential internet or mobile customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. offering products through our internet channel or through our mobile applications could also cause some of our current or potential vendors to consider competing internet or mobile offerings of their products either on their own or through competing distributors. as we continue to grow our e-commerce platform, the impact of attracting existing rather than new guests, conflicts between product offerings online or through our mobile applications and through our stores, and opening up our channels to increased competition from pure-play e-commerce companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may not be able to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic and financial plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. in addition, we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to implement our long-range strategic and financial plans and successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our growth plans or long-range strategic imperatives, including our efficiencies for growth cost optimization program, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future. our continued expansion places increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational, supply-chain, and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ, as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems, and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. 12 table of contents cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential guest, employee, company and/or business partners information, damage our reputation, and expose us to liability, which could negatively impact our business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, and store sensitive and confidential data, including our proprietary business information and that of our guests, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our guests and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information. despite the security measures we have in place and continual vigilance in regard to the protection of sensitive information, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, attacks by hackers, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products, and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems or any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems, including management, supply chain and financial information, and various other processes and transactions, to effectively manage our business. we have also identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support historical and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record, and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could cause delays or cancellation of customer orders or impede the manufacture or shipment of products, the processing of transactions, our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders, and/or the reporting of financial results. our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website and our mobile applications serve as an effective extension of ulta beauty marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts, and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta beauty brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website, mobile applications, and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand reputation. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment, or receipt of some of our merchandise, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our ulta beauty branded product components and gifts with purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs, or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes, and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas, or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment, or receipt of merchandise. our future operations 13 table of contents and performance will be subject to these factors and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional or global economic downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may respond by increasing markdowns, initiating marketing promotions, or transferring product to other stores to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores, or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted, or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could, in the future, decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. we rely on our good relationships with vendor partners to purchase prestige, mass, and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendor partners were to change their distribution model, or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we have no long-term supply agreements with vendor partners and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendor partners. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendor partners to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendor partners may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendor partners, or fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendor partners of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. 14 table of contents during fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, merchandise supplied to ulta beauty by our top ten vendor partners accounted for approximately 62% and 64% of our net sales, respectively. there continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendor partners, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. use of social media may adversely impact our reputation. there has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based and mobile communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy or source. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we also use social media platforms as marketing tools. for example, we maintain facebook, twitter, instagram, and pinterest accounts. as laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees, or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims and the outcome of such litigation, proceedings or claims, including possible fines and penalties, could have a material adverse effect on our business and any loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses. from time to time, we are subject to litigation, including potential class action and single-plaintiff litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims in the ordinary course of our business operations regarding, but not limited to, employment matters, consumer claims, security of consumer and employee personal information, contractual relations with suppliers, marketing and infringement of trademarks, and other intellectual property rights. litigation to defend ourselves against claims by third parties, or to enforce any rights that we may have against third parties, may be necessary, which could absorb significant management time, result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we establish accruals for potential liability arising from litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims when potential liability is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on currently available information. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. in addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. any resolution of litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. specifically, our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, and/or ulta beauty branded products, or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright, or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) 15 table of contents proceedings before the uspto trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our technologies, products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta beauty branded products. some of our competitors may be able to bear the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales may decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product, and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the consumer, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on the possibilities are beautiful. , ulta beauty, ulta, and other marks incorporating our name and all things beauty. all in one place , and 21 days of beauty , copyrights in our website and mobile applications content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com, and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta beauty branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business, and our digital innovations such as try-on applications and artificial intelligence. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, or other proprietary rights for any reason (including any cybersecurity incident that results in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights), or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including ulta beauty branded products and gifts with purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including the ulta beauty collection and ulta beauty branded gifts with purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta beauty products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution 16 table of contents and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta beauty products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores, or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta beauty branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care education and affordability reconciliation act (collectively, the acts) was signed into law in 2010. this healthcare reform legislation significantly expanded healthcare coverage and future changes could significantly impact our business. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. in addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale, and storage of our vendors products and our ulta beauty branded products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including fda, ftc, cpsc, and various state and local agencies, such as state ags and district attorneys. if we, our vendors, or the manufacturers of our ulta beauty branded products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties, claims, or product recalls, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. in addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors products or our ulta beauty branded products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with federal, state, or local requirements when we advertise our products (including prices) or services, or engage in other promotional activities, in digital (including social media), television, or print may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. 17 table of contents our ulta beauty branded products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta beauty branded products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings or salon services, which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand, or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts, and abilities of key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate, and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate, and retain additional qualified executive, managerial, and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating, and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. natural disasters or other catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornados, wildfires, earthquakes, and mudslides, as well as acts of violence or terrorism, could result in physical damage to our properties, the temporary closure of stores and/or distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products (or a substantial increase in the cost of those products) from domestic or foreign suppliers, the temporary disruption in the delivery of goods both to and from our distribution centers (or a substantial increase in the cost of those deliveries), the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and/or the temporary reduction in visits to stores by customers. accordingly, if one or more natural disasters and/or acts of violence or terrorism were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows or may require us to incur increased costs. as we grow the number of our stores in new locations, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new locations. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior build out of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in 18 table of contents some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors interpretations of such building codes. any such increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions, and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $400 million secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring in august 2022. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at either a base rate or the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus 1.25% and the unused line fee is 0.20% per annum. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. the market price for our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendor partners; announcements by us, our vendor partners, or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers, and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. 19 table of contents increases in costs of mailing, paper, and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which could reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our previously announced stock repurchase programs, and any subsequent stock purchase program put in place from time to time, could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. we may have in place from time to time, a stock repurchase program. any such stock repurchase program adopted will not obligate the company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under any such stock repurchase program depends on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. we may affect repurchases under any stock repurchase program from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, including accelerated stock repurchase arrangements. repurchases pursuant to any such stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program effectiveness. changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, lease obligations, inventory valuation, vendor allowances, impairment of long-lived tangible assets, customer loyalty program, share-based compensation, tax matters, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could negatively affect our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. we are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. we are a holding company and we do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries. our operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to repurchase stock or pay dividends (if declared by our board of directors in the future) is dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us and them to make scheduled payments on our obligations will depend on their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. 20 table of contents anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders meetings. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not have any outstanding borrowings on our credit facility as of february 2, 2019, february 3, 2018, or january 28, 2017.risk factors 11 risk factor the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or future growth. we could also be affected by additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the united states, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k before making an investment in our common stock. the coronavirus (covid-19) will have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, profitability, cash flows and supply chain, as well as consumer spending. on march 11, 2020, the world health organization declared covid-19 a global pandemic. federal, state and local governments have since implemented various restrictions, including travel restrictions, border closings, restrictions on public gatherings, quarantining of people who may have been exposed to the virus, shelter-in-place restrictions and limitations on business operations. in response to government recommendations and for the health and safety of our associates (i.e., employees) and guests, we announced on march 17, 2020 our decision to temporarily close all stores across the u.s. while too early to quantify, our sales and results of operations will be negatively impacted by this decision. even after our stores are re-opened, the virus could also negatively impact our results of operations by continuing to weaken demand for our products and services and/or by disrupting our supply chain. as events are rapidly changing, we are unable to accurately predict the impact that covid-19 will have on our business, financial condition, profitability, cash flows and supply chain due to uncertainties including, but not limited to, the duration of the closing of our stores, the duration of quarantines, shelter-in-place and other travel restrictions within u.s. and other affected countries, the severity of the virus, the duration of the outbreak and the public's response to the outbreak and its eventual aftermath. epidemics, pandemics like covid-19, natural disasters, or other catastrophes or crises could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. epidemics, pandemics, or other public health crises, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornados, wildfires, earthquakes, and mudslides, as well as acts of violence or terrorism, could result in physical damage to our properties, the temporary closure of stores and/or distribution and fast fulfillment centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products (or a substantial increase in the cost of those products) from domestic or foreign suppliers, the temporary disruption in the delivery of goods both to and from our distribution and fast fulfillment centers (or a substantial increase in the cost of those deliveries), the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores and/or the temporary reduction in visits to stores by customers. accordingly, if one or more epidemics, pandemics, natural disasters, and/or acts of violence or terrorism were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows or may require us to incur increased costs. the health of the economy in the channels we serve may affect consumer purchases of discretionary items such as beauty products and salon services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and internationally. we appeal to a wide demographic consumer profile and offer an extensive selection of beauty products sold directly to retail consumers and premium salon services. uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of discretionary items across all of our product categories, including prestige beauty products and premium salon services. factors that could affect consumers' willingness to make such discretionary purchases include: general business conditions, levels of employment, interest rates, tax rates, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, and risks, or the public perception of risks, related to epidemics or pandemics like covid-19. in the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected, and we could experience lower than expected net sales. 11 table of contents in addition, a general deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our commercial partners including our vendor partners as well as the real estate developers and landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in which our stores are located. a bankruptcy or financial failure of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate developers or shopping center landlords could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. additionally, volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets in the recent global recession had a significant, adverse impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth, which, in turn, led to declines in consumer spending. reduced consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns and changes in the level of merchandise purchased by our customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may not be able to sustain our growth plans and successfully implement our long-range strategic and financial plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. in addition, we intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability to implement our long-range strategic and financial plans and successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable basis. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our growth plans or long-range strategic imperatives, including our efficiencies for growth cost optimization program, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we intend to continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable future. our continued expansion places increased demands on our financial, managerial, operational, supply-chain, and administrative resources. for example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the number of people we employ, as well as to monitor and upgrade our management information and other systems, and our distribution infrastructure. these increased demands and operating complexities could cause us to operate our business less efficiently and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. if we are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales may decrease. we believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: recognize and define product and beauty trends; anticipate, gauge, and react to changing consumer preferences (including relating to sustainability of product sources, ingredient transparency, and animal welfare) in a timely manner; translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product, and service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our competitors; develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels. if we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of the consumer, our net sales may decrease and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive markets. the markets for beauty products and salon services are highly competitive with few barriers to entry. we compete against a diverse group of retailers, both small and large, including regional and national department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned beauty retailers and salons, online capabilities of national retailers, pure-play e-commerce companies, catalog retailers, and direct response television, including television home shopping retailers and infomercials. we believe the principal bases upon which we compete are the breadth of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our guests' shopping experience, and the 12 table of contents convenience of our stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon services. many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing, and other resources and therefore, may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition, or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. as a result, we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. our comparable sales and quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. a variety of factors affect our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance, including: general u.s. economic conditions and, in particular, the retail sales environment; changes in our merchandising strategy or mix; performance of our new and remodeled stores; the effectiveness of our inventory management; timing and concentration of new store openings, including additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening and other start-up costs; cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings; levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores; timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities; seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; actions by our existing or new competitors; and hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, earthquakes, mudslides, other natural disasters, and epidemics or pandemics. accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any other quarter, and comparable sales for any particular future period may decrease. in that event, the price of our common stock may decline. for more information on our quarterly results of operations, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, selected quarterly financial data (unaudited), and item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. a reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. as a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers. power centers typically contain three to five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller specialty tenants. as a consequence of most of our stores being located in such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers and the anchor stores in power centers where our stores are located. customer traffic to these shopping areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in traffic to such stores resulting from a regional or global economic downturn, an outbreak of flu or other viruses (such as covid-19), a general downturn in the local area where our store is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping environment of a particular power center. such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we may respond by increasing markdowns, initiating marketing promotions, or transferring product to other stores to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. 13 table of contents any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we distribute products to our stores without supplementing such deliveries with direct-to-store arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. we are a retailer carrying over 25,000 beauty products that change on a regular basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our distribution infrastructure. any significant interruption in the operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in operations due to fire, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events (such as the recent outbreak of covid-19) labor disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our e-commerce platform exposes us to certain additional risks which could adversely affect our results of operations. we offer most of our beauty products for sale through our ulta.com website and through our mobile applications. as a result, we encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by internet-based businesses, including risks related to our ability to attract and retain customers on a cost-effective basis and our ability to operate, support, expand, and develop our internet operations, website, mobile applications and software, and other related operational systems. although we believe that our omnichannel participation is a distinct advantage for us due to synergies and the potential for new customers, supporting product offerings through these channels can create issues that have the potential to adversely affect our results of operations. for example, if our e-commerce platform successfully grows, it may do so in part by attracting existing guests, rather than new guests, who choose to purchase products from us online or through our mobile applications rather than from our physical stores, thereby reducing the financial performance of our stores. in addition, offering different products through each channel could cause conflicts and cause some of our current or potential internet or mobile customers to consider competing distributors of beauty products. offering products through our internet channel or through our mobile applications could also cause some of our current or potential vendors to consider competing internet or mobile offerings of their products either on their own or through competing distributors. additionally, omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with changing guest expectations and new developments by our competitors. as we continue to grow our e-commerce platform, the impact of attracting existing rather than new guests, conflicts between product offerings online or through our mobile applications and through our stores, and opening up our channels to increased competition from pure-play e-commerce companies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. in addition, if we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant guest-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. cybersecurity breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential guest, employee, company and/or business partners' information, damage our reputation, and expose us to liability, which could negatively impact our business. in the ordinary course of our business, we collect, process, and store sensitive and confidential data, including our proprietary business information and that of our guests, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our guests and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. the secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. we rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information. despite the security measures we have in place and continual vigilance in regard to the protection of sensitive information, our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, attacks by hackers, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events. any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our business, products, and services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. 14 table of contents we are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems or any material disruption of our information systems could negatively impact financial results and materially adversely affect our business operations, particularly during the holiday season. we are increasingly dependent on a variety of information systems, including management, supply chain and financial information, and various other processes and transactions, to effectively manage our business. we have also identified the need to expand and upgrade our information systems to support historical and expected future growth. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. any material disruption of our systems could disrupt our ability to track, record, and analyze the merchandise that we sell and could cause delays or cancellation of customer orders or impede the manufacture or shipment of products, the processing of transactions, our ability to receive and process e-commerce orders, and/or the reporting of financial results. our e-commerce operations are increasingly important to our business. the ulta.com website and our mobile applications serve as an effective extension of ulta beauty's marketing and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts, and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to the ulta beauty brand, product offerings, and enhanced content. as the importance of our website, mobile applications, and e-commerce operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable to downtime and other technical failures. our failure to successfully respond to these risks could reduce e-commerce sales and damage our brand's reputation. increased costs or interruption in our third-party vendors' overseas sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment, or receipt of some of our merchandise, which could result in lost sales and could increase our costs. we directly source the majority of our ulta beauty branded product components and gifts with purchase and other promotional products through third-party vendors using foreign factories. in addition, many of our vendors use overseas sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their products. any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic restrictions on overseas suppliers' ability to produce and deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm our operations. we have no long-term supply contracts with respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs, or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the united states from such countries. our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes, and local business practices. our sourcing operations may also be hurt by health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced (such as covid-19), adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur overseas, or acts of war or terrorism in the united states or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment, or receipt of merchandise. our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, and these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. diversion of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels, could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. the retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized professional retail outlets. however, incidents of product diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores, grocery stores, or mass merchandisers. diversion could result in adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our products (if diverted products are old, tainted, or damaged), as well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to purchase diverted product from these channels rather than purchasing from one of our salons. additionally, the various product manufacturers could, in the future, decide to utilize other distribution channels for such products, therefore widening the availability of these products in other retail channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. 15 table of contents the capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment infrastructure and the performance of our distribution and fast fulfillment centers may not be adequate to support our historical growth and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur excess costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we currently operate four distribution facilities, which house the distribution operations for ulta beauty retail stores together with the order fulfillment operations of our e-commerce platform, and one fast fulfillment center (e-commerce only). in 2014, we began a multi-year supply chain project, which focused on, among other things, adding capacity and system improvements to support expanded omnichannel capabilities. to support our historical and expected future growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business, it is likely additional distribution centers or fast fulfillment centers will be added in the future. our failure to effectively upgrade and expand our distribution capacity on a timely basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores and the performance of our distribution centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we rely on our good relationships with vendor partners to purchase prestige, mass, and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. if these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendor partners were to change their distribution model, or are unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty products, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we have no long-term supply agreements with vendor partners and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our vendor partners. our business depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendor partners to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products to stock our stores. some of our prestige vendor partners may not have the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep pace with our growth plans. we also have strategic partnerships with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from the growing popularity of such brands. any of our other core brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from the sale of such products. if we fail to maintain strong relationships with our existing vendor partners, or if we fail to continue acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional vendor partners of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, merchandise supplied to ulta beauty by our top ten vendor partners accounted for approximately 61% and 62% of our net sales, respectively. there continues to be vendor consolidation within the beauty products industry. the loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of our other vendor partners, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. use of social media may adversely impact our reputation. there has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based and mobile communications, which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. negative commentary regarding us or the products we sell may be posted on social media platforms and similar devices at any time and may be adverse to our reputation or business. customers value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy or source. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. we also use social media platforms as marketing tools. for example, we maintain facebook, twitter, instagram, and pinterest accounts. as laws and regulations rapidly evolve to govern the use of these platforms and devices, the failure by us, our employees, or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of these platforms and devices could adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. 16 table of contents litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims and the outcome of such litigation, proceedings or claims, including possible fines and penalties, could have a material adverse effect on our business and any loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses. from time to time, we are subject to litigation, including potential class action and single-plaintiff litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims in the ordinary course of our business operations regarding, but not limited to, employment matters, consumer claims, security of consumer and employee personal information, contractual relations with suppliers, marketing and infringement of trademarks, and other intellectual property rights. litigation to defend ourselves against claims by third parties, or to enforce any rights that we may have against third parties, may be necessary, which could absorb significant management time, result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we establish accruals for potential liability arising from litigation and other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims when potential liability is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated based on currently available information. we may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. in addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. any resolution of litigation or other legal or regulatory proceedings or claims could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. specifically, our technologies, promotional products purchased from third-party vendors, and/or ulta beauty branded products, or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright, or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the united states and abroad. these third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. as a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. the inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. in addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the united states patent and trademark office (uspto) proceedings before the uspto's trademark trial and appeal board and opposition proceedings in the european patent office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our technologies, products purchased from third-party vendors or our ulta beauty branded products. some of our competitors may be able to bear the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. if our manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including ulta beauty branded products and gifts with purchase and other promotional products, consistent with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for ulta beauty, including the ulta beauty collection and ulta beauty branded gifts with purchase and other promotional products. our third-party manufacturers of ulta beauty products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory requirements. if we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be required to take costly corrective action. in addition, sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution 17 table of contents and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions, and criminal prosecution. the fda does not have a pre-market approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the fda. however, cosmetic products may become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. these events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our ulta beauty products, severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products, cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we, as well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. in our u.s. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local levels can affect our business. legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. if we fail to comply with any present or future laws or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a prohibition on the operation of our stores, or a prohibition on the sale of our ulta beauty branded products. in particular, failure to adequately comply with the following legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and employment laws. in addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth strategy. our salon business is subject to state board regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon procedures. failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our salons. we operate stores in california, which has enacted legislation commonly referred to as proposition 65 requiring that clear and reasonable warnings be given to consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the state of california to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. although we have sought to comply with proposition 65 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by litigation relating to proposition 65. future changes in healthcare reform legislation could significantly impact our business. in addition, greenhouse gases may have an adverse effect on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. concern over climate change may result in new or additional legal, legislative, and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment, which could result in future tax, transportation, and utility increases, which could adversely affect our business. there is also increased focus, including by investors, guests, and other stakeholders on these and other sustainability matters, including the use of plastic, energy, waste, and worker safety. our reputation could be damaged if we do not (or are perceived not to) act responsibly with respect to sustainability matters, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale, and storage of our vendors' products and our ulta beauty branded products are also subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including fda, ftc, cpsc, and various state and local agencies, such as state ags and district attorneys. if we, our vendors, or the manufacturers of our ulta beauty branded products fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties, claims, or product recalls, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. additionally, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketability of our vendors' products or our ulta beauty branded products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. our failure to comply with federal, state, or local requirements when we advertise our products (including prices) or services, or engage in other 18 table of contents promotional activities, in digital (including social media), television, or print may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. our associates or others may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with our policies and procedures. we are exposed to the risk of misconduct or other improper activities by our associates and third parties such as independent contractors or agents. misconduct by associates, independent contractors, or agents could include inadvertent or intentional failures to comply with our policies and procedures, the laws and regulations to which we are subject, and/or ethical, social, product, labor, and environmental standards. our current and former associates or independent contractors may also become subject to allegations of sexual harassment, racial and gender discrimination, or other similar misconduct, which, regardless or the ultimate outcome, may result in adverse publicity that could significantly harm our brand, reputation, and operations. associate misconduct could also involve improper use of information obtained in the course of the associate's prior or current employment, which could result in legal or regulatory action and harm to our reputation. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. we regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. our principal intellectual property rights include registered and common law trademarks on the possibilities are beautiful. , ulta beauty, ulta, and other marks incorporating our name and all things beauty. all in one place , and 21 days of beauty , copyrights in our website and mobile applications content, rights to our domain name www.ulta.com, and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our ulta beauty branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business, and our digital innovations such as try-on applications and artificial intelligence. as such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees, consultants, suppliers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, or other proprietary rights for any reason (including any cybersecurity incident that results in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights), or if other parties infringe on our intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our ulta beauty branded products and salon services may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could result in their discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our ulta beauty branded products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings or salon services, which may have been performed negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our products or of certain salon services or prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products and services. such side effects could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. these events could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand, or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. if we fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization. this execution requires an experienced and talented management team. if we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts, and abilities of key executive personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. 19 table of contents furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate, and manage our associates. we will need to attract, motivate, and retain additional qualified executive, managerial, and merchandising personnel and store associates. competition for this type of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating, and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. as we grow the number of our stores in new locations, we are subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local jurisdictions. our failure to comply with local building codes, and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new store openings, which could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation. ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly challenging as we increase the number of our stores in new locations. our store leases generally require us to provide a certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior build out of our stores, the constantly increasing number of local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of, local building codes and local building and fire inspectors' interpretations of such building codes. moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of our stores and/or the larger shopping centers and/or common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in some instances to delay store openings. as the number of local building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords' compliance with local building codes and local building and fire inspectors' interpretations of such building codes. any such increased construction costs and/or delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs, cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build and remodel our stores could hurt our profitability. the raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions, and other unpredictable factors. as a retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program, we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and remodeling costs. as a result, increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that could limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to open stores. we have a $1.0 billion secured revolving credit facility with a term expiring in march 2025. substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding borrowings under the agreement. outstanding borrowings bear interest at either a base rate plus a margin of 0% to 0.125% or the london interbank offered rate (libor) plus a margin of 1.125% to 1.25% and the unused line fee is 0.20% per annum. the credit facility agreement contains usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business. these covenants, among other things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, and merge or consolidate with another entity. these covenants could restrict our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances, may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment. 20 table of contents the market price for our common stock may be volatile. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors; fluctuations in quarterly operating results; our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday season; market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole; changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; investors' perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the beauty products and salon services industries; the performance of our key vendor partners; announcements by us, our vendor partners, or our competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; stock transactions by our principal stockholders; recruitment or departure of key personnel; the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock; and environmental, social, governance, sustainability, and other matters impacting our reputation. in addition, public announcements by our competitors, other retailers, and vendors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. increases in costs of mailing, paper, and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which could reduce our profitability. postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. in response to any future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. in addition, we rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. we are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. the cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows. our stock repurchase programs could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. we may have in place from time to time, a stock repurchase program. any such stock repurchase program adopted will not obligate the company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock and may be suspended or discontinued at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. the timing and actual number of shares repurchased under any such stock repurchase program depends on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other market conditions. we may affect repurchases under any stock repurchase program from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, including accelerated stock repurchase arrangements. repurchases pursuant to any such stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. the existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. there can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock. although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness. 21 table of contents changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could affect our financial results or financial condition. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, lease obligations, inventory valuation, vendor allowances, impairment of long-lived tangible assets, customer loyalty program, share-based compensation, tax matters, and litigation, are complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could negatively affect our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. we are a holding company with no operations of our own, and we depend on our subsidiaries for cash. we are a holding company, and we do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries. our operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to repurchase stock or pay dividends (if declared by our board of directors in the future) is dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us and them to make scheduled payments on our obligations will depend on their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if a sale of the company would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. these provisions include: dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder approval; and requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders' meetings. we are also subject to provisions of delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in interest rates. we do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risks primarily through borrowing under our credit facility. interest on our borrowings is based upon variable rates. we did not have any outstanding borrowings on our credit facility as of february 1, 2020, february 2, 2019, or february 3, 2018.