risk factors 35 risk factors. copper copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges the london metal exchange (lme), new york mercantile exchange (nymex) and shanghai futures exchange. prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. during 2019 , the lme copper settlement price averaged $2.72 per pound, ranging from a low of $2.51 per pound to a high of $2.98 per pound, and was $2.79 per pound at december 31, 2019 . in general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. according to wood mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper's end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are construction (28 percent), electrical applications (28 percent), consumer products (21 percent), transportation (12 percent) and industrial machinery (11 percent). we believe copper will continue to be essential in these basic uses as well as contribute significantly to new technologies for energy efficiencies, to advance communications and to enhance public health. examples of areas we believe will require additional copper in the future include: (i) high efficiency motors, which consume up to 75 percent more copper than a standard motor; (ii) electric vehicles, which consume up to four times the amount of copper in terms of weight compared to vehicles of similar size with an internal combustion engine, and require copper-intensive charging station infrastructure to refuel; and (iii) renewable energy such as wind and solar, which consume four to five times the amount of copper compared to traditional fossil fuel generated power. 3 table of contents gold gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. benchmark prices are generally based on london bullion market association (london) quotations. during 2019 , the london pm gold price averaged $1,393 per ounce, ranging from a low of $1,270 per ounce to a high of $1,546 per ounce, and was $1,515 per ounce on december 30, 2019 (there was no london pm gold price quote on december 31, 2019 ). molybdenum molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, including metals week, cru report and metal bulletin . during 2019 , the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $11.37 per pound, ranging from a low of $8.55 per pound to a high of $12.66 per pound, and was $9.23 per pound at december 31, 2019 . products and sales our consolidated revenues for 2019 primarily included sales of copper ( 79 percent ), gold ( 11 percent ) and molybdenum ( 8 percent ). copper concentrate sales to pt smelting (pt-fi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia) totaled 13 percent of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019 , and 12 percent for both the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, which is the only customer that accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues during the three years ended december 31, 2019 . refer to note 16 for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income (loss) by business segment and geographic area. copper products we are one of the world's leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. during 2019 , 56 percent of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, 22 percent as cathode and 22 percent as rod from our north america operations. the copper ore from our mines is generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (sx/ew) as described below. copper concentrate . we produce copper concentrate at six of our mines in which mined ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. in north america, copper concentrate is produced at the morenci, bagdad, sierrita and chino mines, and a significant portion is shipped to our miami smelter in arizona for further processing. copper concentrate is also produced at the cerro verde mine in peru and the grasberg minerals district in indonesia. copper cathode . we produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in el paso, texas, and at nine of our mines. sx/ew cathode is produced from the morenci, bagdad, safford, sierrita, miami, chino and tyrone mines in north america, and from the cerro verde and el abra mines in south america . for ore subject to the sx/ew process, the ore is placed on stockpiles and copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. the copper content of the solution is increased in two additional sx stages, and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an ew process to produce cathode that is, on average, 99.99 percent copper. our copper cathode is used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses. copper cathode is also produced at atlantic copper (our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in spain) and pt smelting. copper concentrate is smelted ( i.e. , subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anode, which weighs between 800 and 900 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.5 percent. the anode is further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathode, which weighs between 100 and 350 pounds and has an average copper content of 99.99 percent. refer to mining operations - smelting facilities and other mining properties for further discussion of atlantic copper and pt smelting. continuous cast copper rod . we manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in el paso, texas; norwich, connecticut; and miami, arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our north america copper mines. 4 table of contents copper sales north america . the majority of the copper produced at our north america copper mines and refined in our el paso, texas refinery is consumed at our rod plants to produce copper rod which is sold to wire and cable manufacturers. the remainder of our north america copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under u.s. dollar-denominated annual contracts. cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing commodity exchange inc. (comex - a division of nymex) monthly average settlement price for the month of shipment and include a premium. generally, copper cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. during 2019 , 23 percent of our north america mines' copper concentrate sales volumes were shipped to atlantic copper for smelting and refining and sold as copper anode and copper cathode. south america . production from our south america mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under u.s. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. during 2019 , our south america mines sold approximately 77 percent of their copper production in concentrate and 23 percent as cathode. substantially all of our south america copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average settlement copper prices. revenues from our south america concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties and treatment charges ( i.e., fees paid to smelters that are generally negotiated annually). in addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrate is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from our south america concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer. indonesia . pt-fi sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, primarily under u.s. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts. pt-fi also sells a small amount of copper concentrate in the spot market. following is a summary of pt-fi's aggregate percentage of concentrate sales to unaffiliated third parties, pt smelting and atlantic copper for the years ended december 31: 2019 2018 2017 third parties 34 % 60 % 54 % pt smelting 64 38 46 atlantic copper 2 2 100 % 100 % 100 % substantially all of pt-fi's concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted lme monthly average settlement copper prices. revenues from pt-fi's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, export duties, treatment charges and allowances for unrecoverable metals. gold products and sales we produce gold almost exclusively from the grasberg minerals district. the gold we produce is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process. gold generally is priced at the average london price for a specified month near the month of shipment. revenues from gold sold as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges, royalties, export duties and allowances for unrecoverable metals. revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges. molybdenum products and sales we are the world's largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. in addition to production from the henderson and climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of the north america copper mines and the cerro verde copper mine in peru. the majority of our molybdenum concentrate is processed in our own conversion facilities. our molybdenum sales are primarily priced based on the average published metals week price for the month prior to the month of shipment. 5 labor matters at december 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 27,500 people (12,800 in north america, 6,900 in indonesia, 6,500 in south america and 1,300 in europe and other locations). we also had contractors that employ personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 22,300 at the grasberg minerals district in indonesia, 11,700 in north america, 5,900 at our south america mining operations and 700 in europe and other locations. employees represented by unions at december 31, 2019 , are listed below, with the number of employees represented and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements: location number of unions number of union- represented employees expiration date pt-fi indonesia 2 5,020 september 2019 a cerro verde peru 1 3,421 august 2021 el abra chile 2 788 april 2023 atlantic copper spain 3 484 december 2019 b kokkola - finland 3 187 november 2020 rotterdam the netherlands 1 60 september 2022 kisanfu africa exploration 2 53 n/a c stowmarket - united kingdom 1 44 may 2020 a. the collective labor agreement (cla) between pt-fi and its workers' unions expired in september 2019, but remains valid in accordance with indonesia law until a new agreement is reached. a new agreement is currently under negotiation. b. the cla between atlantic copper and its workers' unions expired in december 2019, but remains active by mutual agreement from both parties in accordance with spanish law. negotiations on a new agreement are set to begin soon. c. the cla between kisanfu and its unions has no expiration date, but can be amended at any time in accordance with an established process. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further information on labor matters. environmental and reclamation matters the cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations is fundamental to and a substantial cost of our business. for information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to item 1a. risk factors and notes 1 and 12 . competition the top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately 43 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. we currently rank fourth among those producers, with approximately five percent of estimated total worldwide mined copper production. our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. we have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies, and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. the metals markets are cyclical, and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce, and to manage our costs. 6 table of contents mining operations following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in north america (including both copper and molybdenum operations), south america and indonesia. north america in the u.s., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, sx/ew facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. certain portions of our bagdad, sierrita, miami, chino, tyrone, henderson and climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a mine plan of operations or other use permit. we hold various federal and state permits or leases on government land for purposes incidental to mine operations. morenci we own a 72 percent undivided interest in morenci, with the remaining 28 percent owned by sumitomo metal mining arizona, inc. (15 percent) and smm morenci, inc. (13 percent). each partner takes in kind its share of morenci's production. morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. morenci is located in greenlee county, arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of safford on u.s. highway 191. the site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. the morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. the morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 132,000 metric tons of ore per day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day, crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (rom) leaching system; four sx plants; and three ew tank houses that produce copper cathode. total ew tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and forty-one 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 13 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day. morenci's production, including our joint venture partner's share, totaled 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 5 million pounds of molybdenum in 2019 , 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , and 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 12 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 . morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. the morenci operation encompasses approximately 69,500 acres, comprising 51,300 acres of fee lands and 18,200 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate and numerous state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-ways. 7 table of contents the morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility in deming, new mexico. although we believe the morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the morenci operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. bagdad our wholly owned bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in yavapai county in west-central arizona. it is approximately 60 miles west of prescott and 100 miles northwest of phoenix. the property can be reached by arizona highway 96, which ends at the town of bagdad. the closest railroad is at hillside, arizona, 24 miles southeast on arizona highway 96. the open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings. the bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite. the bagdad operation consists of an 81,600 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, a sx/ew plant that will produce approximately 5 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure-leach plant to process molybdenum concentrate. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-seven 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 250,000 metric tons of material per day. bagdad's production totaled 218 million pounds of copper and 13 million pounds of molybdenum in 2019 , 199 million pounds of copper and 10 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , and 173 million pounds of copper and 9 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 . bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 150 meters above sea level. the bagdad operation encompasses approximately 33,100 acres, comprising 21,900 acres of fee lands and 11,200 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate and numerous state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-ways. bagdad receives electrical power from arizona public service company. we believe the bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. 8 table of contents safford, including lone star our wholly owned safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in graham county, arizona, 8 miles north of the town of safford and 170 miles east of phoenix. the site is accessible by paved county road off u.s. highway 70. the safford mine includes three copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite. the property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathode. the operation consists of three open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. the crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. leach solutions feed a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. a sulfur burner plant is also in operation at safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in sx/ew operations. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 358,000 metric tons of material per day. safford's copper production totaled 110 million pounds in 2019 , 123 million pounds in 2018 and 150 million pounds in 2017 . through exploration drilling, we have identified a significant resource at our wholly owned lone star copper leach project located near the safford operation in eastern arizona. an initial project to develop the lone star leachable ores commenced in 2018, with first production expected during 2020. initial production from the lone star leachable ores following a ramp-up period is expected to average approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year, with the potential for future expansion options. total capital costs for the initial project, including mine equipment and pre-production stripping, are expected to approximate $850 million and will benefit from the utilization of existing infrastructure at the adjacent safford operation. as of december 31, 2019, approximately $655 million has been incurred for this project, which is on schedule and within budget. the project also advances exposure to a significant sulfide resource. we expect to incorporate positive drilling and ongoing results in our future development plans. safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,783 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 823 meters above sea level. the safford operation encompasses approximately 94,700 acres, comprising 37,200 acres of fee lands and 57,500 acres of unpatented claims held on public mineral estate. the safford operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from tucson electric power company, arizona public service company and the luna energy facility. although we believe the safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations as well as the lone star project, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the safford operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 9 table of contents sierrita our wholly owned sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in pima county, arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of tucson and 7 miles west of the town of green valley and interstate highway 19. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. the sierrita operation includes a 100,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate. sierrita also produces copper from a rom oxide-leaching system. cathode copper is plated at the twin buttes ew facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. the sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. the molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. the available mining fleet consists of twenty-two 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 175,000 metric tons of material per day. sierrita's production totaled 160 million pounds of copper and 16 million pounds of molybdenum in 2019 , 152 million pounds of copper and 16 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , and 160 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 . sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 14.5 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,300 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 410 meters above sea level. the sierrita operation, including the adjacent twin buttes site, encompasses approximately 46,700 acres, comprising 38,300 acres of fee lands including split estate lands and 8,400 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate. sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the tucson electric power company. although we believe the sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the sierrita operation. refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings for further discussion. 10 table of contents miami our wholly owned miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in gila county, arizona, 90 miles east of phoenix and 6 miles west of the city of globe on u.s. highway 60. the site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. the miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. since about 1915, the miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. the design capacity of the sx/ew plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. miami is no longer mining ore, but currently produces copper through leaching material already placed on stockpiles, which is expected to continue until 2025. miami's copper production totaled 15 million pounds in 2019 , 16 million pounds in 2018 and 19 million pounds in 2017 . miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level and mining advanced the pit bottom to an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. subsequent sloughing of material into the pit has filled it back to an elevation estimated to be 900 meters above sea level. the miami operation encompasses approximately 14,700 acres, comprising 10,400 acres of fee lands and 4,300 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate. miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the salt river project and natural gas through long-term contracts with el paso natural gas as the transporter. we believe the miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations. chino and tyrone chino our wholly owned chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in grant county, new mexico, approximately 15 miles east of the town of silver city off of state highway 180. the mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. chino has been in operation since 1910. 11 table of contents the chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. there is leachable oxide, secondary sulfide and millable primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides. the chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, and a 150 million pound-per-year sx/ew plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by rom leaching. the available mining fleet consists of thirty-five 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 235,000 metric tons of material per day. chino's copper production totaled 175 million pounds in 2019 , 173 million pounds in 2018 and 215 million pounds in 2017 . chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,460 meters above sea level. the chino operation encompasses approximately 117,300 acres, comprising 103,900 acres of fee lands and 13,400 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate. chino receives power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations. tyrone our wholly owned tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. it is located in grant county, new mexico, 10 miles south of silver city, new mexico, along state highway 90. the site is accessible by paved road and by rail. the tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite, with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla. copper processing facilities consist of a sx/ew operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathode per year. the available mining fleet consists of seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one shovel with a bucket size of 47 cubic meters, which is capable of moving an average of 68,000 metric tons of material per day. tyrone's copper production totaled 48 million pounds in 2019 , 55 million pounds in 2018 and 61 million pounds in 2017 . tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. the highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,475 meters above sea level. the tyrone operation encompasses approximately 31,100 acres, comprising 19,700 acres of fee lands and 11,400 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate. tyrone receives electrical power from the luna energy facility and from the open market. we believe the tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. 12 table of contents henderson and climax henderson our wholly owned henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located 42 miles west of denver, colorado, off u.s. highway 40. nearby communities include the towns of empire, georgetown and idaho springs. the henderson mill site is located 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from colorado state highway 9. the henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the continental divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. the tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill. the henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 18 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our fort madison, iowa, processing facility. the available underground mining equipment fleet consists of fourteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (lhd) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles. henderson's molybdenum production totaled 12 million pounds in 2019 , 14 million pounds in 2018 and 12 million pounds in 2017 . the henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. the main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 16,700 acres, comprising 13,100 acres of fee lands, 3,550 acres of unpatented mining claims held on public mineral estate and a 50-acre easement with the u.s. forest service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor. henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with encore energy (with xcel energy as the transporter). we believe the henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. climax our wholly owned climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of leadville, colorado, off colorado state highway 91 at the top of fremont pass. the mine is accessible by paved roads . the climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral. the climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. climax has the capacity to produce approximately 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. the available mining fleet consists of eleven 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day. molybdenum production from climax totaled 17 million pounds in 2019 , 21 million pounds in 2018 and 20 million pounds in 2017 . 13 table of contents the climax mine is located in a mountainous region. the highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. this region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months. the climax operation encompasses approximately 15,100 acres of fee lands. climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with xcel energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with encore energy. we believe the climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. south america at our operations in south america, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. the claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements. cerro verde we have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in cerro verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by smm cerro verde netherlands b.v. (21.0 percent), compa ia de minas buenaventura s.a.a. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the lima stock exchange (5.86 percent). cerro verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of arequipa, peru. the site is accessible by paved highway. cerro verde's copper cathode and concentrate production that is not sold locally is transported approximately 70 miles by truck and by rail to the port of matarani for shipment to international markets. the cerro verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. the predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper pitch. chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides. cerro verde's operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 409,500 metric ton-per-day concentrating facility, and sx/ew leaching facilities. leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a 100,000 metric ton-per-day rom leach system. this sx/ew leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. the available fleet consists of forty-five 290-metric ton haul trucks and ninety-three 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by twelve electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and two hydraulic shovels with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. this fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 1,050,000 metric tons of material per day. cerro verde's production totaled 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 29 million pounds of molybdenum in 2019 , 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 28 million pounds of molybdenum in 2018 , and 1.1 billion pounds of copper and 27 million pounds of molybdenum in 2017 . 14 table of contents cerro verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,553 meters above sea level. the peru general mining law and cerro verde's mining stability agreement grant the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. government land obtained after 1997 must be leased or purchased. cerro verde has a mining concession covering approximately 182,000 acres, including access to 14,600 acres granted through an easement from the peru national assets office, plus 145 acres of owned property, and 1,151 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area. cerro verde receives electrical power, including hydro-generated power, under long-term contracts with kallpa generaci n sa, electroperu and engie energia peru s.a. water for our cerro verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. we believe the cerro verde operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations. for further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see item 1a. risk factors. el abra we own a 51 percent interest in el abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise corporaci n nacional del cobre de chile (codelco). el abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of calama in chile's el loa province, region ii. the site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. the el abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. the predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. there is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization as chalcocite. the oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. there are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite. the el abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a sx/ew facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized rom leaching operation. the available fleet consists of twenty-three 242-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 29 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 216,000 metric tons of material per day. el abra's copper production totaled 180 million pounds in 2019 , 200 million pounds in 2018 and 173 million pounds in 2017 . we continue to evaluate a large-scale expansion at el abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. el abra's large sulfide resource could potentially support a major mill project similar to facilities constructed at cerro verde. technical and economic studies continue to be advanced to determine the optimal scope and timing for the project. 15 table of contents el abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. the highest bench elevation is 4,195 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,385 meters above sea level. el abra controls a total of approximately 180,000 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. in addition, el abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the salar de ascot n aquifer. el abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with engie energia chile s.a. water for our el abra processing operations comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. we believe el abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. for a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors. indonesia ownership . pt-fi is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the republic of indonesia. on december 21, 2018, we completed the transaction with the indonesia government regarding pt-fi's long-term mining rights and share ownership (refer to note 2 for further discussion). following the transaction, we have a 48.76 percent share ownership in pt-fi and the remaining 51.24 percent share ownership is collectively held by pt indonesia asahan aluminum (persero) (pt inalum), an indonesia state-owned enterprise, and pt indonesia papua metal dan mineral (formerly known as pt indocopper investama), which is expected to be owned by pt inalum and the provincial/regional government in papua, indonesia. the arrangements related to the transaction also provide for us and the other pre-transaction pt-fi shareholders to retain the economics of the revenue and cost sharing arrangements under the former rio tinto joint venture. as a result, our economic interest in pt-fi is expected to approximate 81 percent through 2022. iupk . concurrent with closing the transaction, the indonesia government granted pt-fi a new special mining license (iupk) to replace its former contract of work (cow), enabling pt-fi to conduct operations in the grasberg minerals district through 2041. under the terms of the iupk, pt-fi has been granted an extension of mining rights through 2031, with rights to extend mining rights through 2041, subject to pt-fi completing the construction of a new smelter in indonesia within five years of closing the transaction and fulfilling its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesia government. the iupk, and related documentation, contains legal and fiscal terms and is legally enforceable through 2041. in addition, we, as a foreign investor, have rights to resolve investment disputes with the indonesia government through international arbitration. refer to note 13 and item 1a. risk factors for discussion of pt-fi's iupk and risks associated with our indonesia mining operations. 16 table of contents on september 12, 2019, pt-fi received approval from the indonesia government to increase its export quota from approximately 180,000 dry metric tons (dmt) of concentrate to approximately 680,000 dmt for the current export period, which expires march 8, 2020. export licenses are valid for one year periods, subject to review and approval by the indonesia government every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. grasberg minerals district . pt-fi operates in the remote highlands of the sudirman mountain range in the province of papua, indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of new guinea. since 1967, we and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in the approximately 24,600-acre operating area. the operating area is accessible by portsite facilities (arafura sea) and by the timika airport. the project area includes a 70-mile main service road from portsite to the mill complex. after mining the final phase of the grasberg open pit during 2019, the grasberg minerals district includes the following underground mines that are being operated or in advanced development; the grasberg block cave, the deep mill level zone (dmlz), big gossan and the deep ore zone (doz). as further discussed in md&amp;a, pt-fi is ramping-up production from its significant underground ore bodies and continues to achieve important milestones to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold. in aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with development projects and underground mines. production from the grasberg minerals district, including the former rio tinto joint venture share, totaled 0.6 billion pounds of copper and 0.9 million ounces of gold in 2019 , 1.2 billion pounds of copper and 2.7 million ounces of gold in 2018 , and 1.0 billion pounds of copper and 1.6 million ounces of gold in 2017 . our principal source of power for all of our indonesia operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. a combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. our indonesia operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches. grasberg open pit pt-fi began open-pit mining of the grasberg ore body in 1990. the final phase of the grasberg open pit was mined during 2019, including the removal of the open pit ramps. in aggregate, the grasberg open pit produced over 27 billion pounds of copper and 46 million ounces of gold in the 30-year period from 1990 through 2019. ore milled from the grasberg open pit averaged 60,100 metric tons per day in 2019 , 133,300 metric tons per day in 2018 and 101,800 metric tons per day in 2017 . grasberg block cave the grasberg block cave ore body is the same ore body historically mined from the surface in the grasberg open pit. undercutting, drawbell construction and ore extraction activities in the grasberg block cave underground mine continue to track expectations. monitoring data on cave propagation in the grasberg block cave underground mine is providing confidence in growing production rates over time. as existing drawpoints mature and additional drawpoints are added, cave expansion is expected to accelerate production rates to an average of 30,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2020, over 60,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2021 and 130,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2023 from five production blocks spanning 335,000 square meters. ore milled from the grasberg block cave underground mine averaged 8,600 metric tons per day in 2019, 4,000 metric tons per day in 2018 and 3,600 metric tons per day in 2017. production at the grasberg block cave underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the grasberg block cave fleet consists of approximately 460 pieces of mobile equipment. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 52 lhd units and 35 haul trucks. each production lhd unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore and transfer ore into 55 to 60 metric ton capacity haul trucks. in addition, the grasberg block cave has a rail haulage system currently operating with 3 locomotives and 27 ore wagons that haul the ore to the first of the 3 planned gyratory crushers located underground via an automated rail system. each ore wagon typically carries 30 metric tons. 17 table of contents dmlz underground mine the dmlz ore body lies below the doz underground mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the ertsberg east skarn system and neighboring ertsberg porphyry. the dmlz has continued its ramp-up of production. hydraulic fracturing operations have been effective in managing rock stresses and pre-conditioning the cave following mining-induced seismic activity experienced in 2017 and 2018. ore extraction continues to exceed expectations, averaging 14,900 metric tons of ore per day in fourth-quarter 2019 and reached approximately 16,000 metric tons of ore per day at year-end 2019. ongoing hydraulic fracturing operations combined with continued undercutting and drawbell openings in the two currently active production blocks are expected to expand the cave, supporting higher production rates that are expected to average 29,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2020, approach 60,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2021 and 80,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2022 from three production blocks. ore milled from the dmlz underground mine averaged 9,800 metric tons of ore per day in 2019 , and 3,200 metric tons per day in both 2018 and 2017. production at the dmlz underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the dmlz fleet consists of over 290 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 22 lhd units and 9 haul trucks used in production and development activities. big gossan underground mine the big gossan ore body lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. it is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. the mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. the crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. the belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. ore milled from the big gossan underground mine averaged 6,100 metric tons per day in 2019, 3,800 metric tons per day in 2018 and 600 metric tons per day in 2017. production at the big gossan underground mine is expected to continue through 2041. the big gossan fleet consists of over 88 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 12 lhd units and 9 haul trucks used in development and production activities. doz underground mine the doz ore body lies vertically below the now depleted intermediate ore zone. pt-fi began production from the doz ore body in 1989 using open-stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the grasberg open pit. production resumed in 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. the doz is a mature block-cave mine that previously operated at 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. current operating rates from the doz underground mine are driven by the value of the incremental doz ore grade compared to the ore from the dmlz and grasberg block cave underground mines. ore milled from the doz underground mine averaged 25,500 metric tons per day in 2019, 33,800 metric tons per day in 2018 and 31,200 metric tons per day in 2017. production at the doz underground mine is expected to continue through 2022. the doz fleet consists of 186 pieces of mobile equipment. the primary mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 40 lhd units and 19 haul trucks. the trucks dump into two gyratory crushers, and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing. 18 table of contents description of indonesia ore bodies . our indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the grasberg monzodiorite and the ertsberg diorite. the host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the sudirman range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. the igneous-hosted ore bodies (the grasberg block cave and portions of the doz) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. the sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the doz and all of the big gossan) occur as magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions. the copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district's ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. these gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite. the following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported indonesia ore bodies. 19 table of contents the following map, which encompasses an area of 42 square kilometers (16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported indonesia ore bodies and their locations. smelting facilities and other mining properties atlantic copper . our wholly owned atlantic copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the huelva, spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2039. the design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year, and the refinery has a capacity of 286,000 metric tons of copper per year. atlantic copper produced 272,000 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 268,300 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2019 ; 295,300 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 283,100 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2018; and 283,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 271,400 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2017. following is a summary of atlantic copper's concentrate purchases from unaffiliated third parties and our copper mining operations for the years ended december 31: 2019 2018 2017 third parties 73 % 77 % 67 % north america copper mines 22 14 18 south america mining 2 5 15 indonesia mining 3 4 100 % 100 % 100 % atlantic copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with shorter-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. atlantic copper completed a 79-day major maintenance turnaround in 2013, a 16-day maintenance turnaround in 2015, a 27-day maintenance turnaround in 2017 and a 16-day maintenance turnaround in 2019. the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2021. pt smelting . pt-fi's former cow required us to construct, or cause to be constructed, a smelter in indonesia if we and the indonesia government determined that such a project would be economically viable. in 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of pt smelting, an indonesia company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in gresik, indonesia. pt smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. pt-fi owns 25 percent of pt smelting, with the remainder owned by mitsubishi 20 table of contents materials corporation (60.5 percent), mitsubishi corporation rtm japan ltd. (9.5 percent) and jx nippon mining &amp; metals corporation (5 percent). pt-fi's contract with pt smelting requires pt-fi to supply 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (at market rates subject to a minimum or maximum treatment charge rate) necessary for pt smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. pt-fi may also sell copper concentrate to pt smelting at market rates for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. pt-fi supplied 90 percent of pt smelting's concentrate requirements in both 2019 and 2018 and 93 percent in 2017. in early 2017, the indonesia government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. these regulations permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting to continue operating. as a result of labor disturbances and a delay in the renewal of its export license for anode slimes, pt smelting's operations were shut down from mid-january 2017 until early march 2017. in march 2019, pt smelting received a one-year extension of its anode slimes export license, which currently expires march 11, 2020. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. pt smelting produced 246,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 241,200 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2019 ; 258,800 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 257,600 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2018; and 245,800 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 247,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery in 2017. pt smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. pt smelting completed a 30-day maintenance turnaround during 2018, and the next major turnaround is scheduled to start in november 2020. miami smelter . we own and operate a smelter at our miami mining operation in arizona. the smelter has been operating for over 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, improve production and comply with air quality requirements. in 2018, the miami smelter completed the installation of emission control equipment that allows it to operate in compliance with current air quality standards. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. the miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our north america copper mines. concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 641,000 metric tons in 2019 , 729,900 metric tons in 2018 and 612,600 metric tons in 2017. in addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrate, the miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our north america leaching operations. major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) are anticipated to occur approximately every two years for the miami smelter. the miami smelter completed a major maintenance turnaround in the first half of 2019, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2021. rod &amp; refining operations . our rod &amp; refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in north america, including a refinery in el paso, texas; rod mills in el paso, texas, norwich, connecticut, and miami, arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in bayway, new jersey. we refine our copper anode production from our miami smelter at our el paso refinery. the el paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at our miami smelter. our el paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium. molybdenum conversion facilities . we process molybdenum concentrate at our conversion plants in the u.s. and europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. we operate molybdenum roasters in sierrita, arizona; fort madison, iowa; and rotterdam, the netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure-leach plant in bagdad, arizona. we also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in stowmarket, united kingdom. 21 table of contents freeport cobalt . in march 2013, we acquired a cobalt chemical refinery in kokkola, finland, and the related sales and marketing business which provided direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the tenke fungurume mine in the democratic republic of congo, in which we held an interest prior to our sale of tf holdings limited in 2016. we, as operator, held an effective 56 percent ownership interest. the remaining effective ownership interest was held by lundin mining corporation (24 percent) and la g n rale des carri res et des mines (20 percent). the kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 15,000 metric tons of cobalt. in fourth-quarter 2019, we completed the sale of the cobalt refinery and related cobalt cathode precursor business to umicore. under the terms of the agreement, we separated the cobalt business, and umicore acquired the refinery and cathode precursor business, which represents approximately 60 percent of the refinery's historical revenues. we and the current noncontrolling interest partners in freeport cobalt will retain the remaining cobalt business, which is a producer of cobalt fine powders, chemicals, catalysts, ceramics and pigments. refer to note 2 for additional discussion of the disposition. other north america copper mines . we also have five non-operating copper mines ajo, bisbee, tohono, twin buttes and christmas, which are located in arizona that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status. mining development projects and exploration activities capital expenditures for mining operations totaled $2.65 billion (including $1.5 billion for major projects) in 2019 , $2.0 billion (including $1.2 billion for major projects) in 2018 and $1.4 billion (including $0.9 billion for major projects) in 2017 . capital expenditures for major projects during 2019 and 2018 were primarily associated with underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star copper leach project. capital expenditures for major projects during 2017 were primarily associated with the cerro verde expansion project and underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district. refer to md&amp;a for projected capital expenditures for the year 2020. we have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. as further discussed in md&amp;a, our near-term major development projects primarily include the underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district and development of the lone star copper leach project, which is nearing completion. considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. additionally, in response to market conditions, the timing of our expenditures will continue to be reviewed. we continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves. pt-fi has also committed to construct a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023. refer to md&amp;a for a discussion of the smelter project. we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the grasberg minerals district for the kucing liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. we expect to mine the kucing liar ore body using the block-cave method. aggregate long-term capital cost estimates for development of the kucing liar ore body are projected to approximate $3.6 billion, and the timing of development is under review. additionally, full development would require $5.7 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types. the timing of this project and trade-off studies are currently being reviewed. our mining exploration activities are generally associated with our existing mines focusing on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity. exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future potential reserve additions in north america and south america. exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled $77 million in 2019 , $78 million in 2018 and $72 million in 2017 . refer to md&amp;a for projected exploration expenditures for the year 2020 . refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of risks associated with mine development projects and exploration activities, and pt-fi's iupk. 22 table of contents sources and availability of energy, natural resources and raw materials our copper mining operations require significant amounts of energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2019 , including purchases of approximately 230 million gallons of diesel fuel; 8,200 gigawatt hours of electricity at our north america and south america copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our indonesia mining operation); 675 thousand metric tons of coal for our coal power plant in indonesia; and 1 million mmbtu (million british thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our north america mines. based on current cost estimates, energy will approximate 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2020 . our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. for a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to item 1a. risk factors and item 3. legal proceedings. sulphuric acid is used in the sx/ew process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulfur burners at the safford mine. sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. community and human rights we have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and that are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. we continue to make significant expenditures on community development, health, education, training and cultural programs, which include: comprehensive job training programs clean water and sanitation projects public health programs, including malaria control and human immunodeficiency virus agricultural assistance programs small and medium enterprise development programs basic education programs cultural promotion and preservation programs community infrastructure development charitable donations in december 2000, we endorsed the joint u.s. state department-british foreign office voluntary principles on human rights and security (voluntary principles). we participated in developing these voluntary principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy. the voluntary principles provide guidelines for our security programs, including interaction with host-government security personnel, private security contractors and our internal security employees. our human rights policy, most recently updated in august 2017, reflects our full commitment to the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. we have embarked on a program to plan and conduct site-level human rights impact assessments (hria) at our global operations. hrias help us to embed human rights considerations into our business practices, including site-level sustainable development risk registers. we completed a hria at our cerro verde operation in peru in 2017 and at our new mexico mining operations in 2018. we also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies. we believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. as part of our ongoing commitment to sustainable community development, we have made and expect to continue making investments in certain social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations from time to time. over the last three years, these investments have averaged $136 million per year. nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. 23 table of contents south america . cerro verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, cerro verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve arequipa. in addition, an agreement was reached with the peru government for development of a water storage network that was financed by cerro verde and a distribution network that was financed by the cerro verde civil association. cerro verde reached an agreement with the regional government of arequipa, the national government, the local water utility company and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of arequipa, which was completed in 2015. the wastewater treatment plant supplements existing water supplies to support cerro verde's concentrator expansion and also improves the local water quality, enhances agriculture products grown in the area and reduces the risk of waterborne illnesses. in addition to these projects, cerro verde annually makes significant community development investments in the arequipa region. security matters . consistent with our operating permits in peru and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, cerro verde maintains its own internal security department. both employees and contractors perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights and voluntary principles training annually. some contractors assigned to protection of expatriate personnel are armed. these contractors also receive training in defensive driving and firearms handling. cerro verde's costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $9 million in 2019 and $8 million in both 2018 and 2017. cerro verde, like all businesses and residents of peru, relies on the peru government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. the peru government is responsible for employing police personnel and directing their operations. cerro verde has limited public security forces in support of its operation, with the arrangement defined through a memorandum of understanding with the peru national police. cerro verde's share of support costs for government-provided security approximated $1 million in each of the years 2019, 2018 and 2017. indonesia . in 1996, pt-fi established the freeport partnership fund for community development (the partnership fund) through which pt-fi has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education, economic development and local infrastructure. pt-fi had committed through december 31, 2019, to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local communities in its area of operations through the partnership fund. negotiations to extend this agreement are currently underway though pt-fi will continue its contributions to ensure there are no interruptions in the implementation of approved projects. pt-fi recorded costs of $28 million in 2019 , $55 million in 2018 and $44 million in 2017 for this commitment. historically, the amungme and kamoro community development organization ( lembaga pengembangan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro ) oversaw disbursement of the program funds pt-fi contributed to the partnership fund. throughout 2019, pt-fi consulted with key stakeholders to restructure the management of the partnership fund in compliance with pt-fi's iupk. beginning in february 2020, the partnership fund is now managed by a legally recognized indonesian foundation ( yayasan pemberdayaan masyarakat amungme dan kamoro or ypmak). ypmak is governed by a board of governors consisting of seven representatives, including four from pt-fi. in addition to the partnership fund, pt-fi has made and expects to continue making annual investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and local economic development. security matters . consistent with our ongoing commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. as part of its security program, pt-fi maintains its own internal civilian security department. both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. the security department receives human rights training annually. pt-fi's costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $52 million in 2019 , $59 million in 2018 and $54 million in 2017 . 24 table of contents pt-fi, like all businesses and residents of indonesia, relies on the indonesia government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and protection of personnel and property. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesia government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. this designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. the indonesia government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations. from the outset of pt-fi's operations, the indonesia government has looked to pt-fi to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the indonesia government and the remote location of and lack of development in papua. pt-fi's financial support of the indonesia government security institutions assigned to pt-fi's operations area represents a prudent response to pt-fi's requirements and commitments to protect its workforce and property, and better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged and have the logistical resources to patrol pt-fi's roads and secure its area of operations. in addition, the provision of such support is consistent with our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and reflects our commitment to pursue practices that respect human rights. pt-fi's support costs for the government-provided security totaled $22 million in 2019 , $27 million in 2018 and $23 million in 2017 . this supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, including food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police. refer to item 1a. risk factors for further discussion of security risks in indonesia. 25 table of contents mining production and sales data years ended december 31, production sales copper (millions of recoverable pounds) 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 (fcx's net interest in %) north america morenci (72%) a 730 684 737 717 700 713 bagdad (100%) 218 199 173 218 197 164 safford (100%) 110 123 150 111 127 154 sierrita (100%) 160 152 160 157 154 154 miami (100%) 15 16 19 15 16 18 chino (100%) 175 173 215 174 176 217 tyrone (100%) 48 55 61 49 56 61 other (100%) 1 2 3 1 2 3 total north america 1,457 1,404 1,518 1,442 1,428 1,484 south america cerro verde (53.56%) 1,003 1,049 1,062 1,002 1,051 1,062 el abra (51%) 180 200 173 181 202 173 total south america 1,183 1,249 1,235 1,183 1,253 1,235 indonesia grasberg minerals district b 607 1,160 984 667 1,130 981 consolidated 3,247 3,813 3,737 3,292 c 3,811 c 3,700 c less noncontrolling interests 668 695 670 679 694 670 net 2,579 3,118 3,067 2,613 3,117 3,030 average realized price per pound $ 2.73 $ 2.91 $ 2.93 gold (thousands of recoverable ounces) north america (100%) 19 23 23 18 23 22 indonesia b 863 2,416 1,554 973 2,366 1,540 consolidated 882 2,439 1,577 991 2,389 1,562 less noncontrolling interests 162 228 145 182 223 144 net 720 2,211 1,432 809 2,166 1,418 average realized price per ounce $ 1,415 $ 1,254 $ 1,268 molybdenum (millions of recoverable pounds) henderson (100%) 12 14 12 n/a n/a n/a climax (100%) 17 21 20 n/a n/a n/a north america copper mines (100%) a 32 32 33 n/a n/a n/a cerro verde (53.56%) 29 28 27 n/a n/a n/a consolidated 90 95 92 90 94 95 less noncontrolling interest 13 13 13 13 13 12 net 77 82 79 77 81 83 average realized price per pound $ 12.61 $ 12.50 $ 9.33 a. amounts are net of morenci's undivided joint venture partners' interest. b. effective december 21, 2018, our share ownership in pt-fi is 48.76 percent (refer to note 2 for further discussion). our economic interest in pt-fi is expected to approximate 81 percent through 2022 and 48.76 percent thereafter. c. consolidated sales volumes exclude purchased copper of 379 million pounds in 2019, 356 million pounds in 2018 and 273 million pounds in 2017. 26 table of contents mineral reserves proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. the term reserve, as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. the term proven reserves means reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. the term probable reserves means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. the degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with our estimates of proven and probable reserves. estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at december 31, 2019 , were determined using metals price assumptions of $2.50 per pound for copper, $1,200 per ounce for gold and $10 per pound for molybdenum. for the three-year period ended december 31, 2019 , lme copper settlement prices averaged $2.83 per pound, london pm gold prices averaged $1,306 per ounce and the weekly average price for molybdenum quoted by metals week averaged $10.50 per pound. the estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2019 copper a (billion pounds) gold (million ounces) molybdenum (billion pounds) north america 47.2 0.5 2.87 south america 33.2 0.71 indonesia b 35.6 29.1 consolidated basis c 116.0 29.6 3.58 net equity interest d 83.4 16.1 3.25 a. estimated consolidated recoverable copper reserves include 1.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 0.5 billion pounds in mill stockpiles (refer to mill and leach stockpiles for further discussion). b. reflects estimates of minerals that can be recovered through 2041. refer to item 1a. risk factors. c. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the morenci mine in north america (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our morenci joint venture). excluded from the table above are our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 375 million ounces of silver, which were determined using $15 per ounce. d. net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). excluded from the table above are our estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves of 251 million ounces of silver. our net equity interest for estimated metal quantities in indonesia reflects approximately 81 percent from 2020 through 2022 and 48.76 percent from 2023 through 2041. estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2019 proven reserves probable reserves average ore grade average ore grade processing million copper gold moly silver million copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t metric tons % g/t % g/t north america morenci mill 767 0.39 0.02 172 0.36 0.02 crushed leach 419 0.42 119 0.39 rom leach 2,229 0.16 729 0.16 bagdad mill 1,918 0.33 a 0.02 1.39 592 0.29 a 0.02 1.19 rom leach 14 0.32 11 0.26 safford, including lone star crushed leach 641 0.46 171 0.41 sierrita mill 2,662 0.23 a 0.02 1.17 299 0.18 a 0.02 0.92 chino, including cobre mill 146 0.52 0.05 0.01 0.94 79 0.49 0.04 a 0.85 rom leach 91 0.32 8 0.32 tyrone rom leach 44 0.25 5 0.23 henderson mill 55 0.18 12 0.13 climax mill 152 0.15 8 0.09 9,138 2,204 b south america cerro verde mill 809 0.37 0.02 1.97 3,361 0.35 0.01 1.87 crushed leach 39 0.43 10 0.33 rom leach 26 0.27 21 0.18 el abra crushed leach 505 0.43 192 0.38 rom leach 14 0.30 6 0.28 1,393 3,590 indonesia grasberg block cave mill 321 1.11 0.86 3.88 639 0.89 0.66 3.56 dmlz mill 82 0.99 0.82 4.67 347 0.90 0.74 4.34 big gossan mill 17 2.55 1.03 15.71 38 2.22 0.95 13.26 doz mill 8 0.55 0.56 2.60 21 0.48 0.45 2.41 kucing liar c mill 132 1.33 1.09 7.03 208 1.20 1.01 6.43 561 b 1,252 b total fcx - 100% basis 11,091 b 7,046 a. amounts not shown because of rounding. b. does not foot because of rounding. c. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. the reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below: g/t grams per metric ton moly molybdenum 27 table of contents estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2019 (continued) proven and probable a average ore grade recoveries b processing million copper gold moly silver copper gold moly silver method metric tons % g/t % g/t % % % % north america morenci mill 939 0.38 0.02 81.5 49.2 crushed leach 538 0.41 79.6 rom leach 2,958 0.16 38.8 bagdad mill 2,510 0.32 c 0.02 1.34 85.8 59.1 70.6 49.3 rom leach 25 0.30 41.0 safford, including lone star crushed leach 812 0.45 70.5 sierrita mill 2,960 0.23 c 0.02 1.14 83.0 58.4 77.7 49.3 chino, including cobre mill 224 0.51 0.05 0.01 0.91 80.0 77.9 36.8 78.5 rom leach 100 0.32 45.9 tyrone rom leach 49 0.25 55.3 henderson mill 67 0.17 88.5 climax mill 160 0.15 89.5 11,342 south america cerro verde mill 4,170 0.36 0.01 1.89 86.3 54.3 44.7 crushed leach 49 0.41 78.9 rom leach 46 0.23 47.9 el abra crushed leach 697 0.42 54.7 rom leach 20 0.29 38.6 4,982 indonesia grasberg block cave mill 959 0.97 0.73 3.67 84.0 63.5 55.5 dmlz mill 429 0.92 0.75 4.40 86.9 79.1 64.3 big gossan mill 55 2.33 0.97 14.04 91.2 67.7 63.7 doz mill 29 0.50 0.48 2.46 88.2 82.1 66.4 kucing liar d mill 340 1.25 1.04 6.66 85.2 45.3 39.8 1,813 e total fcx - 100% basis 18,137 a. amounts may not equal the sum of proven and probable reserves as presented on the previous page because of rounding. b. recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses. c. amounts not shown because of rounding. d. would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production. e. does not foot because of rounding. 28 table of contents estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves at december 31, 2019 (continued) recoverable reserves copper gold moly silver fcx's processing billion million billion million interest method lbs. ozs. lbs. ozs. north america morenci 72% mill 6.4 0.19 crushed leach 3.9 rom leach 4.0 bagdad 100% mill 15.2 0.2 0.79 53.4 rom leach 0.1 safford, including lone star 100% crushed leach 5.6 sierrita 100% mill 12.3 0.1 1.23 53.6 chino, including cobre 100% mill 2.0 0.3 0.01 5.1 rom leach 0.3 tyrone 100% rom leach 0.1 henderson 100% mill 0.22 climax 100% mill 0.47 49.9 0.5 a 2.91 112.1 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.3 0.02 0.1 100% operations 51.2 0.5 2.93 112.2 consolidated 47.2 0.5 2.87 112.2 net equity interest 47.2 0.5 2.87 112.2 south america cerro verde 53.56% mill 28.2 0.70 113.3 crushed leach 0.3 rom leach 0.1 el abra 51% crushed leach 3.5 rom leach 0.1 32.2 0.70 113.3 recoverable metal in stockpiles b 1.0 0.01 1.7 100% operations 33.2 0.71 115.0 consolidated 33.2 0.71 115.0 net equity interest 17.7 0.38 61.6 indonesia grasberg block cave c mill 17.2 14.2 62.8 dmlz c mill 7.6 8.2 39.0 big gossan c mill 2.6 1.2 15.8 doz c mill 0.3 0.4 1.5 kucing liar c mill 8.0 5.1 29.0 100% operations 35.6 a 29.1 148.2 a consolidated 35.6 29.1 148.2 net equity interest 18.6 15.6 77.6 total fcx 100% basis 120.0 29.6 3.64 375.4 total fcx consolidated basis d 116.0 29.6 3.58 375.4 total fcx net equity interest e 83.4 a 16.1 3.25 251.4 a. does not foot because of rounding. b. refer to mill and leach stockpiles for additional information. c. effective december 21, 2018, our share ownership in pt-fi is 48.76 percent (refer to note 2 for further discussion). our economic interest in pt-fi is expected to approximate 81 percent through 2022 and 48.76 percent thereafter. d. consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests (refer to note 3 for further discussion). e. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). our net equity interest for estimated metal quantities in indonesia reflects approximately 81 percent from 2020 through 2022 and 48.76 percent from 2023 through 2041. 29 table of contents in defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a variable cutoff grade strategy. the objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. we use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. the break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production. our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum and silver. we value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. the calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. the table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of december 31, 2019 : copper equivalent cutoff grade (percent) molybdenum cutoff grade (percent) mill crushed leach rom leach mill north america morenci 0.17 0.12 0.03 bagdad 0.11 0.03 safford, including lone star 0.12 sierrita 0.15 chino, including cobre 0.22 0.08 tyrone 0.03 henderson 0.12 climax 0.05 south america cerro verde 0.15 0.12 0.08 el abra 0.10 0.07 indonesia grasberg block cave 0.67 dmlz 0.72 big gossan 1.70 doz 0.98 kucing liar 0.79 30 table of contents drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit. the following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type: average drill hole spacing (in meters) proven probable mining unit mill leach mill leach north america morenci open pit 86 86 122 122 bagdad open pit 86 86 122 122 safford, including lone star open pit 86 122 sierrita open pit 73 104 chino open pit 43 86 86 122 cobre open pit 61 61 91 91 tyrone open pit 86 86 henderson block cave 47 96 climax open pit 61 91 south america cerro verde open pit 55 55 110 110 el abra open pit 75 120 indonesia grasberg block cave block cave 28 67 dmlz block cave 22 63 big gossan open stope 13 37 doz block cave 23 55 kucing liar block cave 39 95 31 table of contents production sequencing the following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and related stockpiles. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and our current mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that pt-fi will comply with its obligations under the iupk and receive the second 10-year extension from 2031 through 2041 (refer to item 1a. risk factors and note 13 for further discussion). production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. the sequencing dates shown in the chart below include development activity that results in metal production. the ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. in addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below. mill and leach stockpiles mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for metal recovery. mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities. because it is impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. the quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles. 32 table of contents expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. the recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately. expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. for newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years. processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes. following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as of december 31, 2019 : recoverable million average recovery copper metric tons ore grade (%) rate (%) (billion pounds) mill stockpiles cerro verde 99 0.26 73.1 0.4 north america copper mines 6 0.35 72.9 0.1 105 0.5 leach stockpiles morenci 6,829 0.24 1.0 0.3 bagdad 499 0.25 0.5 a safford, including lone star 316 0.42 7.5 0.2 sierrita 650 0.15 9.5 0.2 miami 498 0.39 1.7 0.1 chino, including cobre 1,756 0.25 3.5 0.3 tyrone 1,155 0.28 1.5 0.1 cerro verde 512 0.47 4.7 0.2 el abra 787 0.44 4.9 0.4 13,003 b 1.8 total fcx - 100% basis 2.3 total fcx - consolidated basis c 2.2 total fcx - net equity interest d 1.7 a. rounds to less than 0.1 billion pounds of recoverable copper. b. does not foot because of rounding. c. consolidated stockpiles represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests. refer to note 3 for further discussion. d. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership (refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries). mineralized material we hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. however, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of $3.00 per pound for copper, $1,200 per ounce for gold, $12 per pound for molybdenum and $20 per ounce for silver. refer to item 1a. risk factors for discussion of risks associated with our estimates of mineralized material. 33 table of contents estimated mineralized material at december 31, 2019 milling material leaching material total mineralized material a million million million fcx's metric copper gold moly silver metric copper metric interest tons % g/t % g/t tons % tons north america morenci 72% 2,023 0.25 0.02 1,658 0.17 3,681 bagdad 100% 426 0.30 b 0.02 1.3 1 0.12 427 safford, including lone star 100% 870 0.46 0.06 1.2 962 0.29 1,832 sierrita 100% 1,632 0.18 b 0.02 0.9 1,632 chino, including cobre 100% 282 0.46 0.04 0.01 0.8 29 0.24 312 tyrone 100% 127 0.25 127 henderson 100% 103 0.14 103 climax 100% 378 0.16 378 ajo 100% 621 0.36 0.06 0.01 0.8 621 cochise/bisbee 100% 298 0.44 298 sanchez 100% 196 0.28 196 tohono 100% 275 0.67 284 0.67 559 twin buttes 100% 311 0.47 b 0.03 5.1 103 0.21 413 christmas 100% 367 0.38 0.05 b 1.0 367 south america cerro verde 53.56% 638 0.33 0.01 1.8 36 0.26 674 el abra 51% 2,015 0.40 0.02 0.01 1.3 163 0.24 2,178 indonesia grasberg minerals district 48.76% 2,540 0.68 0.61 3.7 2,540 africa kisanfu c 95% 75 1.84 63 2.43 138 total fcx - 100% basis 12,556 3,920 16,477 d total fcx - consolidated basis e 11,990 3,454 15,444 total fcx - net equity interest f 9,401 3,354 12,756 a. amounts may not equal the sum of milling and leach material because of rounding. b. amounts not shown because of rounding. c. stated tonnage also includes cobalt (0.95 percent for milling material and 0.99 percent for leaching material). d. does not foot because of rounding. e. consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for morenci's joint venture partner interests. refer to note 3 for further discussion. f. net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. refer to note 3 for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries. 34 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of united states (u.s.) federal securities laws. forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as plans, projections or expectations relating to ore grades and milling rates; production and sales volumes; unit net cash costs; operating cash flows; capital expenditures; our expectations regarding our share of pt freeport indonesia's (pt-fi) net (loss) income and future cash flows through 2022; pt-fi's development, financing, construction and completion of a new smelter in indonesia; our expectations regarding results associated with productivity and innovation initiatives; exploration efforts and results; development and production activities, rates and costs; liquidity; tax rates; export quotas and duties; the impact of copper, gold and molybdenum price changes; the impact of deferred intercompany profits on earnings; reserve estimates; execution of the settlement agreement associated with the louisiana coastal erosion cases; and future dividend payments, share purchases and sales. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. we caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, expected, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following: financial risks fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and molybdenum, have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in our financial performance and in the trading prices of our common stock and debt. extended declines in the market prices of copper, gold and, to a lesser extent, molybdenum could adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and asset values and, if sustained, may adversely affect our ability to repay debt. our financial results will vary with fluctuations in the market prices of the commodities we produce, primarily copper and gold, and to a lesser extent molybdenum. an extended decline in market prices of these commodities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, the value of our assets and/or our ability to repay our debt and meet our other fixed obligations; and may depress the trading prices of our common stock and of our publicly traded debt securities. additionally, if market prices for our primary commodities decline for a sustained period of time, we may have to revise our operating plans, including curtailing production, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures, and discontinuing certain exploration and development programs. we may be unable to decrease our costs in an amount sufficient to offset reductions in revenues, in which case we may incur losses, and those losses may be material. fluctuations in commodities prices are caused by varied and complex factors beyond our control, including global supply and demand balances and inventory levels; global economic and political conditions; international regulatory, trade and tax policies, including national tariffs; commodities investment activity and speculation; interest rates; the strength of the u.s. dollar compared to foreign currencies; the price and availability of substitute products; and changes in technology. volatility in global economic growth, particularly in developing economies, has the potential to adversely affect future demand and prices for commodities. geopolitical uncertainty, including the united kingdom's exit from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit), and protectionism, have the potential to inhibit international trade and negatively impact business confidence, which creates the risk of constraints on our ability to trade in certain markets and has the potential to increase price volatility. copper prices may be affected by demand from china, which has become the largest consumer of refined copper in the world, and by changes in demand for industrial, commercial and residential products containing copper. china's economy continues to struggle with rising debt levels, softening domestic consumer demand, the effects of a prolonged trade war, and more recently, the coronavirus outbreak, which has led to the temporary closure of some manufacturing activities in china. although our sales to date have not been significantly affected, a continued slowing in china's economic growth, the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, changes in china-u.s. relations, or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies are difficult to predict and could adversely affect copper prices, demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers, and the u.s. economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 35 table of contents copper prices have fluctuated historically, with london metal exchange (lme) copper settlement prices ranging from $2.48 per pound to $3.29 per pound during the three years ended december 31, 2019 . lme copper settlement prices averaged $2.72 per pound in 2019, $2.96 per pound in 2018 and $2.80 per pound in 2017. the lme copper settlement price was $2.79 per pound on december 31, 2019 , and $2.53 per pound on january 31, 2020 . factors affecting gold prices may include the relative strength of the u.s. dollar to other currencies, inflation and interest rate expectations, purchases and sales of gold by governments and central banks, demand from china and india, two of the world ' s largest consumers of gold, and global demand for jewelry containing gold. the london pm gold price averaged $1,393 per ounce in 2019, $1,268 per ounce in 2018 and $1,257 per ounce in 2017. the london pm gold price was $1,515 per ounce on december 30, 2019 (there was no london pm gold price quote on december 31, 2019 ), and $1,584 per ounce on january 31, 2020 . the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price averaged $11.37 per pound in 2019, $11.93 per pound in 2018 and $8.21 per pound in 2017. the metals week molybdenum dealer oxide weekly average price was $9.23 per pound on december 31, 2019 , and $10.40 per pound on january 31, 2020 . declines in prices of commodities we sell could result in metals inventory adjustments and impairment charges for our long-lived assets. refer to note 4 for additional information regarding metals inventory adjustments. other events that could result in impairment of our long-lived assets include, but are not limited to, decreases in estimated proven and probable mineral reserves and any event that might have a material adverse effect on current and future expected mine production costs. our debt and other financial commitments may limit our financial and operating flexibility. at december 31, 2019 , our total consolidated debt was $ 9.8 billion (see note 8 ) and our total consolidated cash was $2.0 billion . we also have various other financial commitments, including reclamation and environmental obligations, take-or-pay contracts and leases. for further information, refer to the risk factor below relating to mine closure and reclamation regulations, and plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties. although we have been successful in repaying debt in the past and issuing new debt securities in capital markets transactions, there can be no assurance that we can continue to do so. in addition, we may assume additional debt in future periods or reduce our holdings of cash and cash equivalents in connection with funding existing operations, capital expenditures, dividends or in pursuing other business opportunities. our level of indebtedness and other financial commitments could have important consequences to our business, including the following: limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and/or material contingencies, to engage in future development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of our assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt; requiring us to sell assets to reduce debt; or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and/or fewer financial commitments. any failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements may result in an event of default that would allow the creditors to accelerate maturities of the related debt, which in turn may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt agreements. our available cash and liquidity may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our debt instruments that may be accelerated upon an event of default. as of january 31, 2020 , our senior unsecured debt was rated bb with a stable outlook by standard &amp; poor's (s&amp;p), bb+ with a stable outlook by fitch ratings (fitch), and ba1 with a stable outlook by moody's investors service (moody's). if we are unable to maintain our indebtedness and financial ratios at levels acceptable to these credit rating agencies, or should our business prospects deteriorate , our current credit ratings could be 36 table of contents downgraded, which could adversely affect the value of our outstanding securities and existing debt and our ability to obtain new financing on favorable terms and could increase our borrowing costs. certain of our debt agreements, including our revolving credit facility, use the london interbank offered rate (libor) as a reference rate. in july 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021, which could cause market volatility or disruption. if libor is unavailable after 2021, our debt with interest rates that are indexed to libor will be determined using various alternative methods to the extent provided for in our agreements, which could result in increases in interest rates on such debt. further, we may need to renegotiate our debt agreements and the loans that utilize libor to replace libor with the new standard that is established by the u.s. alternative rate reference committee, which is currently expected to be the secured overnight bank financing rate. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms, or the establishment of alternative reference rates on our borrowing costs or the capital markets generally . mine closure and reclamation regulations impose substantial costs on our operations and include requirements that we provide financial assurance supporting those obligations. we also have plugging and abandonment obligations related to our remaining oil and gas properties, and are required to provide bonds or other forms of financial assurance in connection with those properties. changes in or the failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. we are required by u.s. federal and state laws and regulations to provide financial assurance sufficient to allow a third party to implement approved closure and reclamation plans for our mining properties if we are unable to do so. most of our financial assurance obligations are imposed by state laws that vary significantly by jurisdiction, depending on how each state regulates land use and groundwater quality. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and state agencies may also require financial assurance for investigation and remediation actions that are required under settlements of enforcement actions under the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (cercla) or similar state laws. refer to note 12 for additional information regarding our financial assurance obligations. we are also subject to financial assurance requirements in connection with our remaining oil and gas properties under both state and federal laws, including financial responsibility required under the oil pollution act of 1990 to cover containment and cleanup costs resulting from an oil spill. in 2016, the u.s. bureau of ocean energy management (boem) issued revised requirements for lessees operating in federal waters to secure the cost of plugging, abandoning, decommissioning and/or removing wells, platforms and pipelines at the end of production. the revised requirements eliminate previously provided waivers from requirements to post security. in early 2017, the boem announced a delay in the implementation of certain aspects of the rules pending further review and in june 2017, boem further extended the start date for implementation indefinitely. this extension currently remains in effect. if implemented, the new requirements could require us to post security in the form of bonds or similar assurances. the cost for bonds or other forms of assurances can be substantial, and there is no assurance that they can be obtained in all cases. as of december 31, 2019 , our financial assurance obligations totaled $1.3 billion for closure and reclamation/restoration costs of u.s. mining sites, and $0.5 billion for plugging and abandonment obligations of our remaining oil and gas properties. a substantial portion of our financial assurance obligations are satisfied by fcx and subsidiary guarantees and financial capability demonstrations. our ability to continue to provide guarantees and financial capability demonstrations depends on state and other regulatory requirements, our financial performance and our financial condition. other forms of assurance, such as letters of credit and surety bonds, are costly to provide and, depending on our financial condition and market conditions, may be difficult or impossible to obtain. failure to provide the required financial assurance could result in the closure of the affected properties. the laws and regulations governing mine closure and remediation in a particular jurisdiction and oil and gas properties plugging and abandonment obligations are subject to review at any time and may be amended to impose additional requirements and conditions which may cause our provisions for environmental and asset retirement obligations to be underestimated and could materially affect our financial position or results of operations. refer to notes 1 and 12 , for further discussion of our environmental and asset retirement obligations. 37 table of contents unanticipated litigation or negative developments in pending litigation or with respect to other contingencies could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in numerous legal proceedings and subject to other contingencies that have arisen or may arise in the ordinary course of our business or are associated with environmental issues, including those described in note 12 and in item 3. legal proceedings involving matters such as remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, claims of personal injury or property damage arising from such contamination or from exposure to substances such as lead, arsenic, asbestos, talc and other allegedly toxic substances, disputes over water rights, and disputes with foreign governments or regulatory authorities over royalties, taxes, rights and obligations under concession or other agreements, or other matters. we are also involved periodically in other reviews, inquiries, investigations and other proceedings initiated by or involving government agencies, some of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. in addition, from time to time we are involved in disputes over the allocation of environmental remediation obligations at superfund and other sites. the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties, other sanctions or injunctive relief against us, limitations on our property rights, or regulatory interpretations that increase our operating costs. management does not believe, based on currently available information, that the outcome of any individual legal proceeding will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, although individual or cumulative outcomes could be material to our operating results for a particular period, depending on the nature and magnitude of the outcome and the operating results for the period. we may be adversely impacted by increased liabilities and costs related to our defined benefit pension plans. we sponsor defined benefit pension plans for certain current and former employees in the u.s. and a few pension plans for non-u.s. locations which provide for specified payments after retirement. the major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. changes in regulatory requirements or the market value of plan assets, investment returns, interest rates and mortality rates may affect the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status as recorded on the balance sheet. a sustained period of low or insufficient returns could require us to fund our pension plans to a greater extent than anticipated. refer to note 9 for further discussion. international risks our international operations are subject to political, economic, social and regional risks of doing business in countries outside the u.s. we are a u.s.-based mining company with substantial assets located outside of the u.s. we conduct international mining operations in indonesia, peru and chile and exploration activities in various foreign jurisdictions. accordingly, in addition to the usual risks associated with conducting business in countries outside the u.s., our business may be adversely affected by political, economic, social and regional uncertainties in each of these countries. risks of conducting business in countries outside the u.s. include: delays in obtaining or renewing, or the inability to obtain, maintain or renew, or the renegotiation, cancellation, revocation or forced modification of existing contracts, leases, licenses, permits or other agreements and/or approvals; expropriation or nationalization of property, protectionism, or restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital; changes in the host country's laws, regulations and policies (which may be applied retroactively), including, but not limited to, those relating to labor, taxation, royalties, duties, tariffs, divestment, imports, exports (including restrictions on the export of copper concentrates, copper and/or gold), trade regulations, currency and environmental matters (including land use and water use), which because of rising resource nationalism in countries around the world, may impose increasingly onerous requirements on foreign operations and investment; 38 table of contents political, social and economic instability, bribery, extortion, corruption, civil unrest, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; changes in the aspirations and expectations of local communities in which we operate with respect to our contributions to employee health and safety, infrastructure and community development and other factors that may affect our social license to operate, all of which lead to increased costs; risk of loss associated with trespass, local artisanal or illegal mining, theft and vandalism or due to potential pandemic and endemic health issues; changes in u.s. trade, tax, immigration or other policies that may harm relations with foreign countries or result in retaliatory policies; increases in training and other costs and challenges relating to requirements by governmental entities to employ the nationals of the country in which a particular operation is located; foreign exchange controls, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and inflation; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; and the risk of having to submit to the jurisdiction of an international court or arbitration panel or having to enforce the judgment of an international court or arbitration panel against a sovereign nation. our insurance does not cover most losses caused by the above described risks. accordingly, our exploration, development and production activities outside of the u.s. may be substantially affected by many unpredictable factors beyond our control, some of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. our international operations must comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the other jurisdictions in which we operate. there has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws in recent years. we operate in jurisdictions that have experienced public and private sector corruption and where significant anti-corruption enforcement activities, prosecutions, and settlements have occurred. there can be no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from misinterpretation of or noncompliance with applicable laws and internal policies, recklessness, fraudulent behavior, dishonesty or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees, agents or contractors. as such, our corporate policies and processes may not prevent or detect all potential breaches of law or other governance practices. any violation of anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws could result in significant criminal or civil fines and penalties, litigation, and loss of operating licenses or permits, and may damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. we are involved in several significant tax proceedings and other tax disputes with indonesia and peru tax authorities (refer to note 12 for further discussion of these matters). other risks specific to certain countries in which we operate are discussed in more detail below. because our mining operations in indonesia are a significant operating asset, our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social uncertainties in indonesia. our indonesia mining operations include the grasberg minerals district, one of the world's largest copper and gold deposits. these operations are conducted by our subsidiary pt-fi pursuant to a special mining license (iupk) issued by the indonesia government. refer to note 13 for a summary of the iupk's key fiscal terms. maintaining a good working relationship with the indonesia government is important because of the significance of our indonesia operations to our business, and because our mining operations there are among indonesia's most significant business enterprises. the grasberg minerals district has been designated by the indonesia government as one of indonesia's vital national assets. partially because of its significance to indonesia's economy, the environmentally sensitive area where it is located, and the number of people employed, our indonesia operations have been the subject of political debates and of criticism in the indonesia press, and have been the target of protests and occasional violence. improper management of our working relationship with the indonesia government could lead to a disruption of operations and/or impact our reputation in indonesia and in the region 39 table of contents where we operate, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, pt indonesia asahan aluminium (persero) (pt inalum), a shareholder in pt-fi, is an indonesia state-owned enterprise. disputes between us and pt inalum may result in litigation or arbitration, which could increase our expenses and distract our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business and could create tensions with the indonesia government. the indonesia mining industry is subject to extensive regulation within indonesia, and there have been major developments in laws and regulations applicable to mining concession holders, some of which have conflicted with pt-fi's contractual rights in the past. in particular, the enactment of law no. 4 of 2009 on coal and mineral mining on january 12, 2009 (the mining law) replaced the previous regulatory framework which allowed concession holders, including pt-fi, to conduct mining activities in indonesia under a contract of work system. the mining law, which sets out the regulatory framework for the mining industry in indonesia, only contains substantive principles and leaves many specific issues to be addressed in implementing regulations, some of which have conflicted with pt-fi's contractual rights in the past, including, but not limited to, regulations that imposed a progressive export duty on copper concentrate, restricted exports of copper concentrate and anode slimes, increased royalty rates, and required payment of a smelter assurance bond to support a commitment to construct a new smelter in indonesia (refer to note 13 for further discussion of the smelter assurance bond). in january 2017, pt-fi suspended exports through april 2017 in response to these mining law regulations. the mining law stipulated that previously granted mining rights (through a contract of work) would continue to be valid until expiry, subject to certain adjustments. pt-fi's former contract of work (cow) was concluded pursuant to the 1967 foreign capital investment law, which provided basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. the initial term of pt-fi's former cow was scheduled to expire in 2021 and explicitly provided that it could be extended for two 10-year periods subject to indonesia government approval, which could not be withheld or delayed unreasonably. prior to the issuance of the iupk to pt-fi in december 2018, pt-fi had been engaged in discussions with the indonesia government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its former cow, including extending its term. notwithstanding provisions in pt-fi's former cow prohibiting it from doing so, the indonesia government sought to modify pt-fi's former cow to address provisions contained in the mining law and implementing regulations adopted thereunder, some of which were not required under or conflicted with pt-fi's former cow, including, but not limited to (i) restrictions on pt-fi's basic right to export mining products; (ii) imposition of additional export duties and higher royalty rates; (iii) imposition of excess surface water taxes (refer to note 12 ); (iv) imposition of new requirement to build additional smelter capacity in indonesia; (v) unreasonable withholding and delay in granting approval of two successive ten-year extensions of the term of the former cow; and (vi) imposition of new divestment requirements. in early 2017, the indonesia government issued new regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including copper concentrate and anode slimes, and other matters related to the mining sector. pt-fi's export license for copper concentrate is valid for one year periods, subject to review and approval by the indonesia government every six months, depending on smelter construction progress. pt-fi's export license expires on march 8, 2020. the 2017 regulations also permit the export of anode slimes, which is necessary for pt smelting (pt-fi's 25-percent-owned copper smelter and refinery located in gresik, indonesia) to continue operating. pt smelting's export license for anode slimes expires on march 11, 2020. in addition to a delay in the renewal of its export license for anode slimes in 2017, pt smelting's operations were shut down from mid-january 2017 until early march 2017 as a result of labor disturbances. copper concentrate sales to pt smelting totaled over 10 percent of our consolidated revenues for each of the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. we cannot predict when pt-fi's copper concentrate license and pt smelting's anode slimes export license may be renewed. pt-fi's sale of concentrates could be interrupted if either of these export license is not timely renewed or if pt smelting is unable to operate either due to other operational or financial constraints, which would adversely impact our revenues and operations. we cannot assure you that future regulatory changes affecting the mining industry in indonesia will not be introduced or unexpectedly repealed, or that new interpretations of existing laws and regulations will not be issued, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 table of contents we will not mine all of pt-fi's ore reserves in the grasberg minerals district before the initial term of pt-fi's iupk expires in 2031 and the iupk may not be extended through 2041 if pt-fi fails to abide by the terms and conditions of the iupk and applicable laws and regulations. on december 21, 2018, pt-fi was granted an iupk to replace its former cow, enabling pt-fi to conduct operations in the grasberg minerals district through 2041. under the terms of the iupk, pt-fi has been granted mining rights through 2031, with rights to extend its mining rights through 2041, subject to, among other things, pt-fi completing the construction of a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023, and fulfilling its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesia government. refer to note 13 for a summary of the iupk's key fiscal terms. the iupk also requires pt-fi to pay duties on concentrate exports of 5 percent, declining to 2.5 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 30 percent, and eliminated when smelter development progress exceeds 50 percent. smelter development progress will be determined by an independent verifier appointed by the ministry of energy and mineral resources (memr) and subject to approval by the memr. engineering and front-end engineering and design for the selected process technology are ongoing, with construction of the smelter expected to begin in 2020. the preliminary capital cost estimate for the project approximates $3 billion, and pt-fi is pursuing financing and commercial arrangements for this project. the economics of the new smelter will be borne by pt-fi's shareholders according to their respective share ownership percentages. pt-fi's ability to raise and service significant new sources of capital will be a function of macroeconomic conditions, future market prices as well as pt-fi's operational performance, cash flow and debt position, among other factors. financing may not be available when needed or, if available, the terms of such financing may not be favorable to pt-fi. our proven and probable ore reserves in indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041, and pt-fi's current long-term mine plan and planned operations are based on the assumption that pt-fi will abide by the terms and conditions of the iupk and will be granted the 10-year extension from 2031 through 2041. as a result, we will not mine all of these ore reserves during the initial term of the iupk. prior to the end of 2031, we expect to mine 52 percent of aggregate proven and probable recoverable ore at december 31, 2019 , representing 56 percent of our net equity share of recoverable copper reserves and 62 percent of our net equity share of recoverable gold reserves. if pt-fi does not complete the construction of a new smelter in indonesia by december 21, 2023, or fulfill its defined fiscal obligations to the indonesia government as set forth in the iupk, the iupk will likely not be extended from 2031 to 2041, and we would be unable to mine all of pt-fi's ore reserves in the grasberg minerals district, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. operational risks our mining operations are subject to operational risks that could adversely affect our business and our underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous. our mines are very large in scale and, by their nature are subject to significant operational risks, some of which are outside of our control, and many of which are not covered fully, or in some cases even partially, by insurance. these operational risks, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flow, include earthquakes, rainstorms, floods, and other natural disasters; environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, concentrates, pollutants or hazardous chemicals; surface or underground fires; equipment failures; accidents, including in connection with mining equipment, milling equipment or conveyor systems, transportation of chemicals, explosives or other materials and in the transportation of employees and business partners to and from sites; wall failures and rock slides in our open-pit mines, and structural collapses of our underground mines or tailings impoundments; lower than expected ore grades or recovery rates; and unexpected geological formations or conditions (whether in mineral or gaseous form). we are facing continued geotechnical challenges due to the older age of some of our mines and a trend toward mining deeper pits and more complex deposits. no assurances can be given that unanticipated geotechnical and hydrological conditions may or may not occur, nor whether these conditions may lead to events such as landslides and pit wall failures, in the future or that such events will be detected in advance. geotechnical instabilities can be difficult to predict and are often affected by risks and hazards outside of our control, such as seismic activity or severe weather, which may lead to floods, mudslides, pit-wall instability, and possibly even slippage of material. during the first quarter of 2019, our el abra operation in chile experienced heavy rainfall and electrical storms. as a result, our operating results for 2019 were impacted by a suspension of el abra's crushed leach stacking operations 41 table of contents for approximately 35 days. we cannot predict whether similar events will occur in the future or the extent to which any such event would affect this, or any of our other operations. for a discussion of risks specific to our tailings management, see below our management of waste rock and tailings are subject to significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business. underground mining operations can be particularly dangerous, and in may 2013, a tragic accident, which resulted in 28 fatalities and 10 injuries, occurred at pt-fi when the rock structure above the ceiling of an underground training facility collapsed. pt-fi temporarily suspended mining and processing activities at the grasberg complex to conduct inspections and resumed open-pit mining and concentrating activities in june 2013, and underground operations in july 2013. no assurance can be given that similar events will not occur in the future. in addition to the usual risks encountered in the mining industry, our indonesia mining operations involve additional risks given their location in steep mountainous terrain in a remote area of indonesia. these conditions have required us to overcome special engineering difficulties and develop extensive infrastructure facilities. the area also receives extreme rainfall, which has led to periodic floods and mudslides. further, the mine site is also in an active seismic area and has experienced earth tremors from time to time. we maintain insurance to cover some of these risks and hazards; however, our insurance may not sufficiently cover losses from an unexpected natural or operating disaster. we maintain insurance in amounts that are believed to be reasonable depending on the circumstances surrounding the identified risk. no assurance can be given that such insurance will continue to be available, or that it will be available at economically feasible premiums, or that we will be able to obtain or maintain such insurance. in addition, we do not have coverage for certain environmental losses and other risks, as such coverage cannot be purchased at a commercially reasonable cost. the lack of, or insufficiency of, insurance coverage could adversely affect our cash flow and overall profitability. the occurrence of one or more of these events in connection with our exploration activities and development of and production from mining operations may result in the death of, or personal injury to, our employees, other personnel or third parties, the loss of mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, significant repair costs, monetary losses, deferral or unanticipated fluctuations in production, extensive community disruption, loss of licenses, permits or necessary approvals to operate, loss of infrastructure and services, disruption to essential supplies or delivery of our products, environmental damage and potential legal liabilities, all of which may adversely affect our reputation, business, prospects, results of operations and financial position. our management of waste rock and tailings are subject to significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks that could adversely affect our business. the waste rock (including overburden) and tailings produced in our mining operations represent our largest volume of waste material. managing the volume of waste rock and tailings presents significant environmental, safety and engineering challenges and risks primarily relating to structural stability, geochemistry, water quality and dust generation. management of this waste is regulated in the jurisdictions where we operate and our programs are designed to be in compliance with applicable national, state and local laws, permits and approved environmental impact studies. we maintain large leach pads and tailings impoundments containing viscous material, which are effectively large embankments that must be engineered, constructed and monitored to ensure structural stability and avoid leakages or structural collapse. our tailings impoundments in arid areas must have effective programs to suppress fugitive dust emissions, and we must effectively monitor and treat acid rock drainage at all of our operations. in indonesia, we use a river transport system for tailings management, which presents other risks discussed in more detail below under environmental risks - our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs . affiliates of our company currently operate 18 tailings storage facilities, 16 in the u.s. and 2 in peru; and manage 58 in the u.s. that are inactive or closed (approximately three-fourths of the inactive facilities have been closed). our inventory of tailings storage facilities comprises 13 active and 52 inactive or closed facilities with an upstream design, 5 active and 5 inactive with a centerline design, and 1 closed facility with a downstream design. in 2019, the company produced approximately 309 million metric tons of tailings. the failure of tailings and other embankments 42 table of contents at any of our mining operations could cause severe, and in some cases catastrophic, property and environmental damage and loss of life, as well as adverse effects on our business and reputation. many of our tailings storage facilities are located in areas where a failure has the potential to impact individual dwellings and a limited number of impoundments are in areas where a failure has the potential to impact nearby communities or mining infrastructure. as a result, our programs take into account the significant consequences resulting from a potential failure, and we apply substantial financial resources and both internal and external technical resources to the safe management of all those facilities. our tailings management and stewardship program, which involves qualified external engineers of record and periodic oversight by independent tailings technical review boards and our tailings stewardship team, complies with the tailings governance framework on preventing catastrophic failure of tailings storage facilities adopted in december 2016 by the international council on mining and metals (icmm) and required to be implemented by icmm members. we continue to enhance our existing practices and work with icmm on additional initiatives to strengthen the design, operation and closure of tailings storage facilities in an effort to reduce the risk of severe or catastrophic failure of those facilities. however, no assurance can be given that these events will not occur in the future. the importance of careful design, management and monitoring of large impoundments has been emphasized in recent years by large scale tailings dam failures at unaffiliated mines, which resulted in numerous fatalities and caused extensive property and environmental damage. as a result of recent failures, international groups are drafting standards that management may elect to implement at our tailings storage facilities. these standards, if implemented, could require changes to our tailings stewardship program and approaches, although it is uncertain if these changes would result in material capital or operating cost increases. based on observations from such recent tailings failures, in addition to fatalities and severe personal, property and environmental damages, these events could result in limited or restricted access to mine sites, suspension of operations, decrease in reserves, legal liability (possibly involving the freezing of assets), government investigations, additional regulations and restrictions on mining operations in response to any such failure, increased monitoring costs and production costs, increased insurance costs or inability to obtain insurance, increased costs and/or limited access to capital, remediation costs, inability to comply with any additional safety requirements or obtain necessary certifications, evacuation or relocation of communities or other emergency action, and other impacts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial position. labor unrest, violence, activism and civil and religious strife could disrupt our operations and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately 37 percent of our global labor force was covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 21 percent of our global labor force was covered by agreements that have expired and are currently being negotiated or will expire during 2020. labor agreements are negotiated on a periodic basis, and may not be renewed on reasonably satisfactory terms to us or at all. if we do not successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements with our union workers, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our mining operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, if we enter into a new labor agreement with any union that significantly increases our labor costs relative to our competitors, our ability to compete may be materially and adversely affected. refer to items 1. and 2. business and properties for additional information regarding labor matters, and expiration dates of such agreements. we could experience labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, or lockouts that could adversely affect our operations. for example, during third-quarter 2016, pt-fi experienced labor productivity issues and a 10-day work stoppage that began in late september 2016. these labor productivity issues continued during fourth-quarter 2016 and the first half of 2017. beginning in mid-april 2017, pt-fi experienced a high level of worker absenteeism, which unfavorably impacted mining and milling rates. a significant number of employees and contractors elected to participate in an illegal strike action beginning in may 2017, and were subsequently deemed to have voluntarily resigned under existing indonesia laws and regulations resulting in increased costs associated with employee severance. we cannot predict whether additional labor disruptions will occur. significant reductions in productivity or protracted work stoppages at one or more of our operations could significantly reduce our production and sales volumes or disrupt operations, which could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. 43 table of contents south american countries have historically experienced uneven periods of economic growth, as well as recession, periods of high inflation and general economic and political instability. during 2019, both peru and chile experienced significant and prolonged civil unrest unrelated to our operations. production and sales for the third quarter and first nine months of 2019 were impacted by protests associated with an unaffiliated copper development project in peru that blocked access to the shipping ports and main transportation routes. while the civil unrest did not significantly impact our results for 2019, if it continues, our south america operations could be materially impacted, and as a result, we may not be able to meet our production and sales targets. we cannot predict whether similar or more significant incidents of civil unrest will occur in the future in peru or chile. indonesia has long faced separatist movements and civil and religious strife in a number of provinces. several separatist groups have sought increased political independence for the province of papua, where our grasberg minerals district is located. in papua, there have been sporadic attacks on civilians by separatists and sporadic but highly publicized conflicts between separatists and the indonesia military and police. in addition, illegal miners have periodically clashed with police who have attempted for years to move them away from our facilities. social, economic and political instability in papua could materially and adversely affect us if it results in damage to our property or interruption of our indonesia operations. in 2009, a series of shooting incidents occurred within the pt-fi project area, including along the road leading to our mining and milling operations. the shooting incidents continued on a sporadic basis through january 2015. during this time, there were 20 fatalities and more than 50 injuries to our employees, contractor employees, government security personnel and civilians. the next shooting incident occurred in august 2017, and a series of shooting incidents continued on a sporadic basis within the pt-fi project area and in nearby areas through january 2020, resulting in 2 fatalities and 25 injuries. in december 2018, a mass shooting incident targeting a highway construction crew occurred in a remote mountain area approximately 100 miles east of the pt-fi project area, resulting in at least 19 fatalities and several reported as missing. separatist security incidents, including shootings, continue to be sporadically reported, and pt-fi continues to monitor the occurrence of incidents in the region. the safety of our workforce is a critical concern, and pt-fi continues to work with the indonesia government to address security issues within the pt-fi project area and in nearby areas. we continue to limit the use of the road leading to our mining and milling operations to secured convoys, including transport of personnel by armored vehicles in designated areas. we cannot predict whether additional incidents will occur that could disrupt or suspend our operations. if other disruptive incidents occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict at this time. our mining operations depend on the availability of significant quantities of secure water supplies. our mining operations require physical availability and secure legal rights to significant quantities of water for mining and ore processing activities, and related support facilities. most of our north america and south america mining operations are in areas where competition for water supplies is significant. continuous production at our mines is dependent on many factors, including our ability to maintain our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the water supplies. as discussed in item 3. legal proceedings, in arizona, where our operations use both surface and groundwater, we are a participant in an active general stream adjudication in which arizona courts have been attempting, for over 40 years, to quantify and prioritize surface water claims for the gila river, one of the state's largest river systems. this stream adjudication primarily affects our morenci, safford and sierrita mines. the adjudication is addressing the state law claims of thousands of competing users, including us, as well as significant federal water claims that are potentially adverse to the state law claims of both surface water and groundwater users. groundwater is treated differently from surface water under arizona law, which historically allowed landowners to pump subsurface water, subject only to the requirement of putting it to reasonable use. however, court decisions in the adjudication have concluded that some underground water constitutes subflow that is to be treated legally as surface water and is therefore subject to the arizona doctrine of prior appropriation and subject to the adjudication and potentially unavailable to groundwater pumpers in the absence of valid surface water claims. any re-characterization of groundwater as surface water could affect the ability of consumers, farmers, ranchers, municipalities, and industrial users like us to continue to access water supplies that have been relied on for decades. because we are a user of both groundwater and surface water in arizona, we are an active participant in the adjudication proceedings. given the legal and technical complexity of these adjudications, their long history, and their long-term legal, economic and 44 table of contents political implications, it is difficult to predict the timing or the outcome of these proceedings. if we are not able to satisfactorily resolve the issues being addressed in the adjudications, our ability to pump groundwater could be diminished or curtailed, and our operations at morenci, safford and sierrita could be adversely affected unless we are able to acquire alternative resources. water for our cerro verde operation in peru comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the rio chili watershed that collects water primarily from seasonal precipitation. as a result of occasional drought conditions, temporary supply shortages are possible that could affect our cerro verde operations. water for our el abra mining operation in chile comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer. in 2010, el abra obtained regulatory approval for the continued pumping of groundwater from the salar de ascot n aquifer for its sulfide processing plant, which began operations in 2011. the agreement to pump from this aquifer is subject to continued monitoring of the aquifer level to ensure that environmentally sensitive areas are not impacted by our pumping. if impact occurs, we would have to reduce pumping to restore water levels, which could have an adverse effect on production from el abra. although we typically have sufficient water for our indonesia operations (the area receives considerable rainfall that has led to periodic floods and mudslides), lower rainfall could affect our water supply availability from time to time. although each of our mining operations currently has access to sufficient water supplies to support current operational demands, as discussed above, some supplies are subject to adjudication proceedings, the outcome of which we cannot predict, and the availability of additional supplies that may be required for potential future expansions is uncertain. while we are taking actions to acquire additional back-up water supplies, such supplies may not be available at acceptable cost, or at all, so that the loss of a water right or currently available water supply could force us to curtail operations or force premature closures, thereby increasing and/or accelerating costs or foregoing profitable operations. development projects are inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our business. the development of our underground mines and operations are also subject to other unique risks. mine development projects typically require a number of years and significant expenditures during the development phase before production is possible. currently, our major projects include underground development activities in the grasberg minerals district, which currently constitutes approximately 31 percent of our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable copper reserves, and completion of the lone star copper leach project in arizona. there are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all development projects including, but not limited to, unexpected or difficult geological formations or conditions, potential delays, cost overruns, lower levels of production during ramp-up periods, shortages of material or labor, construction defects, breakdowns and injuries to persons and property. the development of our underground mines and operations are also subject to other unique risks including, but not limited to, underground fires or floods, ventilating harmful gases, fall-of-ground accidents, and seismic activity resulting from unexpected or difficult geological formations or conditions. while we anticipate taking all measures that we deem reasonable and prudent in connection with the development of our underground mines to safely manage production, there is no assurance that these risks will not cause schedule delays, revised mine plans, injuries to persons and property, or increased capital costs, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, although we devote significant time and resources to our project planning, approval and review processes, many of our development projects are highly complex and rely on factors that are outside of our control, which may cause us to underestimate the time and capital required to complete a development project. for example, we experienced mining induced seismic activity in 2017 and 2018 at the deep mill level zone (dmlz) underground mine in the grasberg minerals district. results to date of hydraulic fracturing activities to manage rock stresses and pre-condition the dmlz underground mine for large-scale production have been effective. however, we cannot predict whether additional occurrences of seismic activity or other unexpected geological activity will occur that could cause schedule delays or additional revisions to pt-fi's mine plans, which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 45 table of contents we must continually replace reserves depleted by production but exploration is highly speculative and our exploration activities may not result in additional discoveries. our existing mineral reserves will be depleted over time by production from our operations. because our profits are primarily derived from our mining operations, our ability to replenish our mineral reserves is essential to our long-term success. depleted reserves can be replaced in several ways, including expanding known ore bodies, by locating new deposits or acquiring interests in reserves from third parties. exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and uncertainties, requires substantial capital expenditures, and is frequently unsuccessful in discovering significant mineralization. accordingly, our current or future exploration programs may not result in the discovery of additional deposits that can be produced profitably. even if significant mineralization is discovered, it will likely take many years from the initial phases of exploration until commencement of production, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. we may not be able to discover, enhance, develop or acquire reserves in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow our current reserve levels, which could negatively affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. estimates of proven and probable reserves and mineralized material are uncertain and the volume and grade of ore actually recovered may vary from our estimates. our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves have been calculated in accordance with industry guide 7 as required by the securities exchange act of 1934. there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral reserves. such estimates are, to a large extent, based on the average prices for the commodities we produce, primarily copper, gold and molybdenum, and interpretations of geologic data obtained from drill holes and other exploration techniques, which data may not necessarily be indicative of future results. our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. we conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. we revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. geological assumptions about our mineralization that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available. estimates of proven and probable reserves that will be recovered, or the cost at which we anticipate reserves will be recovered, are based on uncertain assumptions. the uncertain global financial outlook may affect economic assumptions related to reserve recovery and may require reserve revisions. changes to reserve estimates could affect our asset carrying values and may also negatively impact our future financial condition and results. in addition, if the market prices for the commodities we produce decline from recent levels, if production costs increase or recovery rates decrease, or if applicable laws and regulations are adversely changed, we can offer no assurance that the indicated level of recovery will be realized or that mineral reserves can be mined or processed profitably. if we determine that certain of our estimated proven and probable reserves have become uneconomic, this may ultimately lead to a reduction in our aggregate reported reserves which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the term mineralized material does not indicate proven and probable reserves as defined by the u.s. securities and exchange commission. estimates of mineralized material are subject to further exploration and development, and are, therefore, subject to considerable uncertainty. mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors and are, therefore, subject to considerable uncertainty. accordingly, no assurance can be given that the estimated mineralized material not included in reserves will become proven and probable reserves. our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations, some of which require permits and other approvals. these regulations increase our costs and in some circumstances may delay or suspend our operations. our operations are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that are subject to change and to changing interpretation by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with broad supervisory authority. as a mining company, compliance with environmental legal requirements is an integral and costly part of our business. for additional information, see environmental risks below. we are also subject to extensive regulation of worker 46 table of contents health and safety, including the requirements of the u.s. occupational safety and health act and similar laws of other jurisdictions. in the u.s., the operation of our mines is subject to regulation by the u.s. mine safety and health administration (msha) under the federal mine safety and health act of 1977 (mine act). msha inspects our mines on a regular basis and issues citations and orders when it believes a violation has occurred under the mine act. additionally in the u.s. various state agencies have concurrent jurisdiction arising under state law that regulate worker health and safety in both our industrial facilities and mines. if regulatory inspections result in an alleged violation, we may be subject to fines and penalties and, in instances of alleged significant violations, our mining operations or industrial facilities could be subject to temporary or extended closures. refer to exhibit 95.1 to this annual report on form 10-k for additional information regarding certain orders and citations issued by msha for our operations during the year ended december 31, 2019 . many other governmental bodies regulate other aspects of our operations, and our failure to comply with these legal requirements can result in substantial penalties. in addition, new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations by courts or regulatory authorities occur regularly, but are difficult to predict. any such variations could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. our business is dependent upon information technology systems, which may be adversely affected by disruptions, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration. our industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies. our strategy of operating large, long-lived, geographically diverse assets has been increasingly dependent on our ability to become fully integrated and highly automated. many of our business and operational processes are heavily dependent on traditional and emerging technology systems to conduct day-to-day operations, improve safety and efficiency, and lower costs. as our dependence on information systems, including those of our third party service providers and vendors, grows, we become more vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency and magnitude. these incidents may include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, phishing, credential attacks, unauthorized access to data and other advanced and sophisticated cybersecurity breaches and threats, including threats that increasingly target critical operational technologies and process control networks. if any of these threats materialize, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks, production downtimes, communication interruption or other disruptions and delays to our operations or to the transportation of products or infrastructure utilized by our operations, unauthorized release of proprietary, commercially sensitive, confidential or otherwise protected information, the corruption of data, significant health and safety consequences, environmental damage, loss of intellectual property, fines and litigation, damage to our reputation or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. we have experienced targeted and non-targeted cybersecurity incidents in the past and may experience them in the future. while these cybersecurity incidents did not result in any material loss to us or interrupt our day-to-day operations, there can be no assurance that we will not experience any such losses in the future. given the unpredictability of the timing and the evolving nature and scope of information technology disruptions, the various procedures and controls we use to monitor and protect against these threats and to mitigate our potential risks to such threats may not be sufficient in preventing cybersecurity incidents from materializing. further, as cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities to cybersecurity threats. we could also be adversely affected by system or network disruptions if new or upgraded information technology systems are defective, not installed properly or not properly integrated into our operations. various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to system implementation and modification, but system modification failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could, if not successfully implemented, adversely impact the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. in addition, from time to time, we pursue investments and initiatives to improve the productivity and efficiency of existing systems and operations, including through investments in digital technologies. during 2019, we advanced initiatives in our north america and south america mining operations to enhance productivity, expand margins and reduce the capital intensity of the business through the utilization of new technology applications in combination with a more interactive operating structure. the pilot program initiated at the bagdad mine in northwest arizona in late 2018 utilizes data science, machine learning and integrated functional teams to address bottlenecks, provide cost benefits and drive improved overall performance. there can be no certainty that some or any of such 47 table of contents investments and initiatives will meet our capital allocation objectives. in addition, certain of such investments and initiatives are still in the early stages of evaluation, and additional engineering and other analysis is required to fully assess their impact. further, there can be no certainty as to the time required for us to extract value from these investments or initiatives, or that we will achieve any anticipated savings or efficiency improvements. environmental risks our operations are subject to complex, evolving and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations. compliance with environmental regulatory requirements involves significant costs and may constrain existing operations or expansion opportunities. our operations, both in the u.s. and internationally, are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations governing the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances; solid waste disposal; air emissions; wastewater discharges; remediation, restoration and reclamation of environmental contamination, including mine closures and reclamation; well plug and abandonment requirements; protection of endangered and protected species and designation of critical habitats; and other related matters. in addition, we must obtain regulatory permits and approvals to start, continue and expand operations. our miami, arizona, smelter processes approximately half of the aggregate copper concentrate produced by our north america copper mines. epa regulations required us to invest approximately $230 million in 2017 for new pollution control equipment to reduce sulfur dioxide (so 2 ) to meet both regional haze requirements and to allow the arizona department of environmental quality (adeq) to demonstrate compliance with epa's so 2 ambient air quality standards. during 2019 and january 2020, there were several instances in which the so 2 levels exceeded the ambient standard. we are engaged in discussions with adeq and conducting an ongoing investigation of the cause of the ambient levels. we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to modify our systems or install additional equipment to address findings, new requirements or for other reasons, which could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. laws such as cercla and similar state laws may expose us to joint and several liability for environmental damages caused by our operations, or by previous owners or operators of properties we acquired or are currently operating or at sites where we sent materials for processing, recycling or disposal. as discussed in more detail in the next risk factor, we have substantial obligations for environmental remediation on mining properties previously owned or operated by freeport minerals corporation (fmc) and certain of its affiliates. noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in material penalties or other liabilities. in addition, compliance with these laws may from time to time result in delays in or changes to our development or expansion plans. compliance with these laws and regulations imposes substantial costs, which we expect will continue to increase over time because of increased regulatory oversight, adoption of increasingly stringent environmental standards, as well as other factors. new or revised environmental regulatory requirements are frequently proposed, many of which result in substantially increased costs for our business, including those regarding financial assurance in the financial risk factor above. for example, criteria for man-made organic compounds that could be present in soil, groundwater and surface water at our existing and former operations are currently under review by federal and state agencies. in 2015, epa and the department of the army (collectively, the agencies) adopted rules that added remote tributaries into the regulatory definition of waters of the united states that are protected by the clean water act, thereby imposing significant additional restrictions on land uses in remote areas with only tenuous connections to active waterways. these rules were challenged by multiple states and industry parties and litigation is ongoing. on october 22, 2019, the agencies published a final rule that repeals these 2015 rules and recodifies the regulations in place prior to adoption of the 2015 rules. epa also published a proposed rule on february 14, 2019, which revises the definition of waters of the united states to clarify the scope of waters federally regulated under the clean water act. the final rule will become effective 60 days after it is published in the federal register. this final rule could limit or eliminate our need to obtain federal permits for future expansions at our operations in arizona and new mexico. we expect multiple legal challenges to the rule to be filed in federal district courts. regulations have been considered at various governmental levels to increase federal financial responsibility requirements both for mine closure and reclamation and for oil and gas decommissioning. in 2019, legislation was enacted in colorado that eliminates our ability to use parent company guarantees, and requires proof of an end date for water treatment as a condition of permit issuance authorizing mining operations, with some exceptions for existing operations. adoption of similar new environmental regulations or more stringent application of existing 48 table of contents regulations may materially increase our costs, threaten certain operating activities and constrain our expansion opportunities. our mining operations are subject to regulations under the endangered species act (esa) that are intended to protect species listed by the department of interior's fish &amp; wildlife service (fws) as endangered or threatened, along with critical habitat designated by fws for these listed species. the regulations limit the ability of landowners, including us, to obtain federal permits or authorizations needed for expansion of our operations, and may also affect our ability to obtain, retain or deliver water to some operations. on august 27, 2019, fws published final rules that mitigate, but do not eliminate, potential regulatory constraints on mining operations under the esa. fws is also evaluating whether certain species should still be listed under the esa, and reconsidering critical habitat that was proposed but never finalized. environmental groups have aggressively challenged fws's regulatory reforms. no assurances can be made that restrictions relating to conservation will not have an adverse impact on expansion of our operations or not result in delays in project development, constraints on exploration and constraints on operations in impacted areas. we incurred environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs (including our joint venture partners' shares) to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations that affect our operations totaling $0.4 billion in both 2019 and 2018, and $0.5 billion in 2017. for 2020 , we expect to incur approximately $0.5 billion of aggregate environmental capital expenditures and other environmental costs. the timing and amounts of estimated payments could change as a result of changes in regulatory requirements, changes in scope and costs of reclamation and plug and abandonment activities, the settlement of environmental matters and the rate at which actual spending occurs on continuing matters. we incur significant costs for remediating environmental conditions on properties that have not been operated in many years. fmc and its subsidiaries, and many of their affiliates and predecessor companies, have been involved in exploration, mining, milling, smelting and manufacturing in the u.s. for more than a century. activities that occurred in the late 19th century and the 20th century prior to the advent of modern environmental laws were not subject to environmental regulation and were conducted before american industrial companies fully understood the long-term effects of their operations on the surrounding environment. with the passage of cercla in 1980, companies like fmc became legally responsible for remediating hazardous substances released into the environment from properties owned or operated by them as well as properties where they arranged for disposal of such substances, irrespective of when the release to the environment occurred or who caused it. that liability is often asserted on a joint and several basis with other prior and subsequent owners, operators and arrangers, meaning that each owner or operator of the property is, and each arranger may be, held fully responsible for the remediation, although in many cases some or all of the other responsible parties no longer exist, do not have the financial ability to respond or cannot be found. as a result, because of our acquisition of fmc in 2007, many of the subsidiary companies we now own are potentially responsible for a wide variety of environmental remediation projects throughout the u.s., and we expect to spend substantial sums annually for many years to address those remediation issues. we are also subject to claims where the release of hazardous substances is alleged to have damaged natural resources. at december 31, 2019 , we had more than 100 active remediation projects in 24 u.s. states. in addition, fmc and certain affiliates and predecessor companies were parties to agreements relating to the transfer of businesses or properties that contained indemnification provisions relating to environmental matters, and from time to time these provisions become the source of claims against us. at december 31, 2019 , we had $1.6 billion recorded in our consolidated balance sheet for environmental obligations attributable to cercla or analogous state programs and for estimated future costs associated with environmental matters at closed facilities or closed portions of operating facilities. 49 table of contents our environmental obligation estimates are primarily based upon: our knowledge and beliefs about complex scientific and historical facts and circumstances that in many cases occurred many decades ago; our beliefs and assumptions regarding the nature, extent and duration of remediation activities that we will be required to undertake and the estimated costs of those remediation activities, which are subject to varying interpretations; and our beliefs regarding the requirements that are imposed on us by existing laws and regulations and, in some cases, the clarification of uncertain regulatory requirements that could materially affect our environmental obligation estimates. significant adjustments to these estimates are likely to occur in the future as additional information becomes available. the actual environmental costs may exceed our current and future accruals for these costs, and any such changes could be material. in addition, remediation standards imposed by epa and state environmental agencies have generally become more stringent over time and may become even more stringent in the future. imposition of more stringent remediation standards, particularly for arsenic and lead in soils, poses a risk that additional remediation work could be required at our active remediation sites and at sites that we have already remediated to the satisfaction of the responsible governmental agencies, and may increase the risk of toxic tort litigation. epa is considering how to reduce lead exposure in the environment under multiple environmental programs. certain federal and state health agencies also support lower lead cleanup levels. the timing for these epa activities is unclear, but any reduction in lead cleanup levels could result in material increases to our environmental reserves for ongoing residential property cleanup projects near former smelter sites. refer to note 12 for further discussion of our environmental obligations. our indonesia mining operations create difficult and costly environmental challenges, and future changes in environmental laws, or unanticipated environmental impacts from those operations, could require us to incur increased costs. mining operations on the scale of our indonesia operations involve significant environmental risks and challenges. our primary challenge is to dispose of the large amount of crushed and ground rock material, called tailings, that results from the process by which we physically separate the copper-, gold- and silver-bearing materials from the ore that we mine. in 2019, pt-fi produced approximately 39 million metric tons of tailings. our tailings management plan, which has been approved by the indonesia government, uses the unnavigable river system in the highlands near our mine to transport the tailings to an engineered area in the lowlands where the tailings and natural sediments are managed in a deposition area. lateral levees have been constructed to help contain the footprint of the tailings and to limit their impact in the lowlands. another major environmental challenge is managing overburden, which is the rock that must be moved aside in the mining process to reach the ore. in the presence of air, water and naturally occurring bacteria, some overburden can generate acid rock drainage, or acidic water containing dissolved metals that, if not properly managed, can adversely affect the environment. in addition, certain overburden stockpiles are subject to erosion caused by the large amounts of rainfall, with the eroded stockpile material eventually being deposited in the lowlands tailings management area; this additional material influences the deposition of finer sediment material in the estuary, as well as presents the potential for increased environmental impacts. the grasberg overburden stockpiles have experienced significant erosion , exacerbated by unanticipated work stoppages that adversely affected our ability to manage certain overburden stockpiles, which may have resulted in adverse environmental impacts. the current tailings deposition management plan as well as environmental monitoring programs take into account the presence of this overburden in the lowlands tailings management area. as part of this effort, pt-fi has expanded the scope of its studies and analysis to assess the environmental impacts from the overburden erosion, including conducting risk assessments to determine whether any such impacts require additional monitoring or mitigation measures, which would result in increased costs. 50 table of contents in the past, certain indonesia government officials have raised questions with respect to our tailings and overburden management plans, including a suggestion that we implement a pipeline system rather than the river transport system for tailings management and disposition. because our indonesia mining operations are remotely located in steep mountainous terrain and in an active seismic area, a pipeline system would be costly, difficult to construct and maintain, and more prone to catastrophic failure, and could therefore involve significant potentially adverse environmental issues. based on our own studies and others conducted by third parties we do not believe that a pipeline system is necessary or practical. we cannot guarantee that we will not have overtopping or levee failure caused by extreme weather events or unanticipated structural failure in the future, which could result in flooding of the nearby communities. if flooding were to occur, it could result in loss of lives, severe personal, property and environmental damages, which could necessitate evacuation or relocation of communities or other emergency action, financial assistance to the communities impacted, remediation costs to repair and compensate for the social, cultural and economic impacts. in december 2018, indonesia's ministry of environment and forestry (the moef) issued a revised environmental permit to pt-fi to address many of the operational activities that it alleged were inconsistent with earlier studies. pt-fi and the moef also established a new framework for continuous improvement in environmental practices in pt-fi's operations, including initiatives that pt-fi will pursue to increase tailings retention and to evaluate large scale beneficial uses of tailings within indonesia. in addition, pt-fi continues to work with moef to finalize environmental permitting related to the rail facilities and certain of the underground mining production operations as well as permitting for the extension of levees to contain the lateral flow of tailings in the lowlands. refer to note 12 for further discussion. we cannot assure you that future environmental changes affecting the mining industry in indonesia will not be introduced or unexpectedly altered or repealed, or that new interpretations of existing environmental laws and regulations will not be issued, which might have a significant impact on pt-fi. our copper mining operations require significant energy and regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. energy represented approximately 20 percent of our copper mine site operating costs in 2019 , and is expected to approximate 20 percent in 2020 . carbon-based energy is a significant input in our operations, although haul truck diesel use and the amount of purchased power that is derived from fossil fuel or renewable sources varies significantly depending on site production and country-specific circumstances. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would vary by operation based on particular geographic circumstances. as a result of the paris agreement reached during the 21 st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in 2015, a number of governments have pledged nationally determined contributions to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in the u.s., several states, including colorado and new mexico, have advanced goals reducing or eliminating fossil-fuel based energy production. the administration of president trump has announced the intention of the u.s. to withdraw from the paris agreement, which begins a lengthy process that will not be completed until november 2020. transitions to renewable and other energy sources could, among other things, increase our operating and energy costs depending on the scope and magnitude of increased regulation of fossil-fuel based energy production, including greenhouse gas emissions. other risks our holding company structure may impact our ability to service debt and our stockholders ' ability to receive dividends . we are a holding company with no material assets other than the capital stock and intercompany receivables of our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to repay our indebtedness and pay dividends is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to make funds available to us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. dividends from subsidiaries that are not wholly owned are shared with other equity owners. cash at our international operations is also typically subject to foreign withholding taxes upon repatriation into the u.s. 51 table of contents in addition, our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to us or repay loans to us, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or pay dividends. each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal restrictions, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are parties to credit agreements that restrict their ability to make distributions or loan repayments to us if such subsidiary is in default under such agreements, or to transfer substantially all of the assets of such subsidiary without the consent of the lenders. our rights to participate in any distribution of our subsidiaries' assets upon their liquidation, reorganization or insolvency would generally be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries' creditors, including any trade creditors. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. these provisions: authorize the board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of each class; if issued, such preferred stock would increase the number of outstanding shares of our capital stock and could include terms that may deter an acquisition of us; establish advance notice requirements for nominations to the board or for proposals that can be presented at stockholder meetings; limit who may call stockholder meetings; and require the approval of the holders of two thirds of our outstanding common stock to enter into certain business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions, including if the consideration to be received by our common stockholders in the transaction is deemed to be a fair price. these provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by the board. in addition, because we are incorporated in delaware, we are governed by the provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which may prohibit large stockholders from consummating a merger with, or acquisition of, us. these provisions may deter an acquisition of us that might otherwise be attractive to our stockholders.