risk factors in this report. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report, which speak only as of the date of this report. part i item 1. business lamb weston holdings, inc. ( we, us, our, the company, or lamb weston ), along with its joint venture partners, is a leading global producer, distributor, and marketer of value-added frozen potato products and is headquartered in eagle, idaho. we are the number one supplier of value-added frozen potato products in north america the largest market for frozen potato products in the world. we are also a leading supplier of value-added frozen potato products internationally, with a strong and growing presence in high-growth emerging markets. we offer a broad product portfolio to a diverse channel and customer base in over 100 countries. french fries represent the majority of our value-added frozen potato product portfolio. we were organized as a delaware corporation in july 2016, as a wholly owned subsidiary of conagra brands, inc. (formerly, conagra foods, inc., conagra ). on november 9, 2016, we separated from conagra and became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by conagra of 100% of our outstanding common stock to conagra stockholders ( separation ). each conagra stockholder of record on november 1, 2016 ( record date ) received one share of our common stock for every three shares of conagra common stock held on the record date. as a result of the separation, approximately 146 million shares of our common stock were distributed on november 9, 2016, to conagra stockholders. on november 10, 2016, our common stock began trading under the ticker symbol lw on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). in connection with the separation, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and several other agreements with conagra, including a transition services agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, and trademark license agreement. these agreements govern the relationship between us and conagra following the separation and provide for the allocation of various assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the parties. these agreements also include arrangements for transition services to be provided by conagra to lamb weston. for a discussion of these agreements, see the section entitled relationship with conagra after the spinoff in our registration statement on form 10, as amended, as filed with the sec on october 17, 2016 ( form 10 ), and note 3, related party transactions, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this form 10-k. 3 table of contents in connection with the separation, conagra transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of the lamb weston business to us. combined financial statements for lamb weston for periods prior to the separation were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from conagra consolidated financial statements and accounting records. the combined financial statements for lamb weston contained in this report for periods prior to the separation reflect our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, and cash flows as our business was operated as part of conagra prior to the separation and include allocations for a portion of conagra shared corporate general and administrative expenses. following the separation, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of lamb weston holdings, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. the combined financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as of dates and for periods prior to the separation may not be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate stand-alone public company during the periods presented, nor are they indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be in the future. information related to the separation and its effect on our financial statements are discussed throughout this form 10 k. segments we have four reportable segments: global, foodservice, retail, and other. for segment financial information see note 14, segments, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10 k. global our global segment includes branded and private label frozen potato products sold in north america and international markets. this segment includes the top 100 north american based restaurant chains and international customers comprised of global and regional restaurant chains, foodservice distributors, and retailers. we have included non-u.s. and non-canadian retail and foodservice customers in the global segment due to efficiencies associated with coordinating sales to all customer types within specific markets, as well as due to these customers smaller scale and dependence on local economic conditions. the global segment product portfolio includes frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, and appetizers sold under the lamb weston brand, as well as many customer labels. foodservice our foodservice segment includes branded and private label frozen potato products sold throughout the united states and canada. the foodservice segment primary products are frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, commercial ingredients, and appetizer items sold under the lamb weston brand, as well as many customer labels. our products are sold primarily to commercial distributors, restaurant chains outside the top 100 north american based restaurant chains, and non-commercial channels. retail our retail segment includes consumer facing retail branded and private label frozen potato products sold primarily to grocery, mass merchants, club, and specialty retailers. the retail segment primary products are frozen potatoes and sweet potato items sold under our owned or licensed brands, including grown in idaho and alexia , other licensed equities comprised of brand names of major north american restaurant chains, and the retailers own brands. other the other reporting segment primarily includes our vegetable and dairy businesses. 4 table of contents joint venture relationships we conduct business through two unconsolidated joint ventures and include our share of the earnings of these affiliates as equity method investment earnings in our combined and consolidated financial statements based on our economic ownership interest in each of these joint ventures. these two joint ventures produce and market value-added frozen potato products for retail and foodservice customers: we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb-weston/meijer v.o.f. ( lamb-weston/meijer ), a joint venture with meijer frozen foods b.v., headquartered in the netherlands, which manufactures and sells frozen potato products principally in europe. we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb-weston/rdo frozen ( lamb-weston/rdo ), a potato processing venture with rdo frozen co. we provide all sales and marketing services to lamb-weston/rdo and receive a fee for these services based on a percentage of the net sales of the venture. in addition, we hold a 49.99% interest in lamb weston bsw, llc ( lamb weston bsw ), a potato processing venture with ochoa ag unlimited foods, inc. ( ochoa ). we provide all sales and marketing services to lamb weston bsw. lamb weston bsw is a variable interest entity, and we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the entity. we consolidate the financial statements of lamb weston bsw. for more information, see note 6, investments in joint ventures, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. sales, distribution and customers we benefit from strong relationships with a diverse set of customers. we sell our products through a combined network of internal sales personnel and independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain restaurants, wholesale, grocery, mass merchants, club, specialty retailers, and foodservice distributors and institutions, including businesses, educational institutions, independent restaurants, regional chain restaurants, and convenience stores. we have long-tenured relationships with leading quick service and fast casual restaurants, global foodservice distributors, large grocery retailers, and mass merchants. our largest customer, mcdonald corporation, accounted for approximately 11%, of our consolidated net sales in each of fiscal years 2017, 2016, and 2015. no other customer accounted for more than 10% of our fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015 consolidated net sales. accounts receivable from one customer accounted for 10% and 11% of our consolidated accounts receivable at may 28, 2017 and may 29, 2016, respectively. accounts receivable from an additional customer accounted for 11% of our consolidated accounts receivable at may 29, 2016. international operations excluding our joint ventures, we sell our products to consumers in approximately 60 countries. at may 28, 2017, we had operations in twelve countries, with manufacturing and processing facilities in three countries. foreign net sales, including sales by domestic segments to customers located outside of the united states and canada, were approximately $663.5 million, $615.9 million, and $557.0 million in fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. our long-lived assets located outside of the united states are not significant. see note 14, segments, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k for additional information on our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. also see item 2. properties, for more information on our manufacturing and other facilities. for a discussion of risks related to our operations outside the united states, see item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. 5 table of contents research and development we leverage our research and development resources for both growth and efficiency initiatives. we seek to drive growth through innovation by creating new products, enhancing the quality of existing products, and participating in joint menu planning exercises with our customers. we also emphasize sustainability in our research and development activities, and continue to drive processing innovations aimed at reducing waste and water usage. research and development expense was $10.6 million, $6.7 million, and $7.2 million in fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. raw materials and packaging our primary raw materials are potatoes, edible oils, energy, and packaging. we source a significant amount of our raw potatoes under both strategic, long-term grower relationships and shorter-term annual contracts. in the united states, most of the potato crop used in value-added products is grown in idaho, oregon, and washington. european growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in the netherlands, belgium, germany, france, and the united kingdom. we believe that the grower network to which we have access provides a sufficient source of raw potato inputs year-to-year. we source edible oils through strategic relationships with key suppliers, and we source energy and packaging materials through multiple suppliers under a variety of agreement types. the prices paid for these raw materials, as well as other raw materials used in making our products, generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply. from time to time, we have faced increased costs for our significant raw materials, packaging and energy inputs. we seek to mitigate higher input costs through long-term relationships, contract strategies, and hedging activities where an active market for an input exists, as well as through our productivity and pricing initiatives. manufacturing we own and operate 15 manufacturing facilities for our products. see "item 2. properties" for more information about our manufacturing facilities. in addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we source a portion of our products under co-packing agreements, a common industry practice in which manufacturing is outsourced to other companies. we regularly evaluate our co-packing arrangements to ensure the most cost-effective manufacturing of our products and to utilize company-owned manufacturing facilities most effectively. backlog we manufacture primarily to fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. while at any given time there may be some backlog of orders due to the seasonal nature of our manufacturing activities and associated inventory, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant. competition the value-added frozen potato products industry in both north america and international markets is highly competitive. competitors include large national and international frozen potato product companies, as well as local and regional companies. significant competitors include the j.r. simplot company, mccain foods, cavendish farms, and the kraft heinz company. some of our competitors are larger and have substantially more financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. we compete with producers of similar products on the basis of, among other things, customer service, 6 table of contents value, product innovation, product quality, food safety, brand recognition and loyalty, price, and the ability to identify and satisfy customer preferences. the markets in which we operate are expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. see also item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits of this form 10-k. trademarks, licenses and patents our trademarks are material to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the united states and most other geographic markets where the related food items are sold. depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use and their registration status is maintained. trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. our significant trademarks include: lamb weston, lamb supreme, lamb weston seeing possibilities in potatoes (and design), lamb seasoned, lw private reserve, stealth fries, and sweet things. we also sell certain products under brands, such as grown in idaho , which we license from third parties, as well as alexia , which we license from conagra under a trademark license agreement that we entered into in connection with the separation. we own numerous patents worldwide. we consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. while we consider our patent portfolio to be material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. seasonality our product contribution margin percentage, inventory levels, net sales, and cash flows are affected by seasonality. in general, our product contribution margin percentage tends to be highest in the third quarter, reflecting the benefit of freshly-harvested potatoes. we typically harvest potatoes in the pacific northwest in august through december, which is primarily in our second quarter. freshly-harvested potatoes process better in our production lines and are not subject to storage or secondary transport costs. we typically hold about 60 days of finished goods inventory on a first-in-first-out basis, so the relatively favorable costs incurred from our second fiscal quarter harvest flow through our income statement in the third quarter. inventory levels also tend to be higher in the third quarter, requiring more working capital at that time. in general, net sales and cash flows tend to be higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting customer and consumer buying patterns. employees as of june 30, 2017, we had approximately 6,500 employees, excluding our joint ventures. approximately 400 of these employees work outside of the united states. approximately 27% of our hourly employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements on terms that we believe are typical for the industry in which we operate. most of the union workers at our facilities are represented under contracts that expire at various times throughout the next several years. approximately 8% expire in fiscal 2018. as these agreements expire, we believe they will be renegotiated on terms satisfactory to us. 7 table of contents executive officers the following are our executive officers as of july 20, 2017: name title age timothy r. mclevish executive chairman 62 thomas p. werner director, president and chief executive officer 51 robert m. mcnutt senior vice president and chief financial officer 57 micheline c. carter senior vice president and chief human resources officer 51 rodney w. hepponstall senior vice president and general manager, foodservice and retail business units 50 richard a. martin senior vice president and chief supply chain officer 60 sharon l. miller senior vice president and general manager, global business unit 51 michael j. smith senior vice president, growth and strategy 40 eryk j. spytek senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary 49 timothy r. mclevish has served as our executive chairman since november 2016. before joining lamb weston, he was a consultant to walgreens boots alliance, inc. (formerly walgreen co.), a pharmacy-led, health and wellbeing enterprise, from march 2015 to october 2016, where he provided advice and counsel to their chief executive officer on matters relating to strategy, business development, and m&amp;a. before this role, mr. mclevish served as chief financial officer of walgreens boots alliance, inc. from january 2015 to march 2015 and executive vice president and chief financial officer of walgreen co. from august 2014 to december 2014. from october 2007 to april 2014, mr. mclevish held various positions within kraft foods group, inc. and kraft foods inc., food and beverage companies, including executive vice president and chief financial officer. before joining kraft foods, mr. mclevish was the senior vice president and chief financial officer of ingersoll-rand company limited, a diversified industrial company, from march 2002 to october 2007. mr. mclevish currently serves on the boards of directors for kennametal inc. since 2004 and r.r. donnelley &amp; sons company since 2016. he previously served on the boards of conagra from july 2015 to november 2016, us foods holding corp. from may 2016 to july 2016, and urs corporation from november 2012 to october 2014. thomas p. werner has served as our president and chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors since november 2016. he previously served as president, commercial foods, for conagra, since may 2015. in that role, he led the company lamb weston and foodservice businesses, as well as its previously divested spicetec flavors &amp; seasonings and j.m. swank operations. mr. werner also served as interim president of conagra private brands from june 2015 through its divestiture in february 2016. before his appointment as president, commercial foods, mr. werner served as senior vice president of finance for conagra private brands and commercial foods operating segments from june 2013 to april 2015, and senior vice president of finance for lamb weston from may 2011 until june 2013. robert m. mcnutt has served as our senior vice president and chief financial officer since january 2017. prior to joining lamb weston, mr. mcnutt served as chief financial officer of expera specialty solutions, llc, a specialty paper company, from september 2013 to december 2016. mr. mcnutt served as senior vice president and chief financial officer for greif, inc., an industrial packaging company, from january 2011 to july 2013, and as senior vice president and chief financial officer for boise inc., a packaging and paper products manufacturer, from february 2008 to january 2011. micheline c. carter has served as our senior vice president and chief human resources officer since november 2016. ms. carter joined lamb weston in september 2016. from july 2012 until september 2016, she served in a variety of roles with the kraft heinz company, a food and beverage company, including as head of u.s. people and performance and global corporate functions from november 2015 to september 2016, vice president of human resources, global 8 table of contents corporate functions from august 2015 until october 2015, vice president of human resources, cheese &amp; dairy from january 2015 until july 2015, and senior director human resources &amp; global exports from july 2012 until january 2015. before joining the kraft heinz company, ms. carter served from february 2011 until july 2012 as senior director human resources, solar energy &amp; solar materials with memc electronic materials, inc. (now known as sunedison, inc.), a supplier of silicon wafers to semiconductor and photovoltaic cell companies. before that, ms. carter served in a variety of roles with j. c. penney company, inc., an apparel and home furnishings retailer, yum! brands, inc., an operator of fast food companies, and texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor design and manufacturing company. rodney w. hepponstall has served as our senior vice president and general manager, foodservice and retail business units since october 2016. prior to that, mr. hepponstall served as conagra vice president and general manager, foodservice from october 2011 until september 2016. before joining conagra in 2011, mr. hepponstall served as vice president at bimbo bakeries usa, a bakery products company, from september 2008 to september 2011, and as senior vice president of foodservice and retail at maple leaf foods inc., a consumer protein company, from 1999 to 2008. richard a. martin has served as our senior vice president and chief supply chain officer since september 2016. mr. martin joined conagra as a manufacturing manager in 1994, and from 1997 to 2003, he served as plant manager of several of our facilities. mr. martin also served as director of operations from 2003 to 2005, vice president, manufacturing from 2005 to 2011, and vice president, global operations from 2011 until 2016. before joining lamb weston, mr. martin spent 15 years at general foods corporation and kraft foods inc., food and beverage companies, in a variety of engineering and manufacturing positions. sharon l. miller has served as our senior vice president and general manager, global business unit since september 2016. before that, she served as conagra vice president and general manager, lamb weston global business unit since 2015. since joining conagra in 1999, ms. miller has held various leadership positions, including vice president of sales for lamb weston's european joint venture, lamb-weston/meijer v.o.f. prior to that, ms. miller was a key sales and business leader within lamb weston in both the united states and canada. she also has held various sales positions with north american foodservice distributors. michael j. smith has served as our senior vice president, growth and strategy since september 2016. mr. smith also served as vice president and general manager of lamb weston retail from may 2011 to september 2016, vice president and general manager of conagra private brands from march 2014 to february 2016, and vice president of global marketing of lamb weston from july 2012 to march 2014. prior to joining conagra in 2007, mr. smith held various brand management roles at dean foods company, a food and beverage company, and its whitewave division from may 2003 until december 2007. eryk j. spytek has served as our senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since october 2016. from june 2015 until october 2016, mr. spytek was of counsel at winston &amp; strawn llp, a law firm. before returning to winston &amp; strawn llp, he served from december 2009 until april 2015 in a variety of roles with mead johnson nutrition company, a manufacturer of infant formula, including as vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary from april 2013 to april 2015 and as vice president, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from december 2009 to april 2013. before that, mr. spytek served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary at sirva, inc., a moving and relocation services provider, from february 2006 to february 2009. before joining sirva, inc., mr. spytek was a partner at winston &amp; strawn llp. ethics and governance we have adopted a code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior corporate financial officers that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and controller. these codes are available on our website at www.lambweston.com through the investors corporate governance link. we 9 table of contents will disclose any waiver we grant to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or controller under our codes, or certain amendments to the codes, on our website at www.lambweston.com. in addition, we adopted corporate governance principles and charters for the audit committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, and compensation committee. all of these materials are available on our website at www.lambweston.com and will be provided free of charge to any stockholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, lamb weston holdings, inc., 599 s. rivershore lane, eagle, idaho 83616. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. food safety and labeling we are subject to extensive regulation, including, among other things, the food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended by the food safety modernization act, the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). this comprehensive and evolving regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, labeling, packaging, and safety of food, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices. in addition, the nutrition label reform act of 2016 prescribes the format and content in which specific nutrition information is required to appear on the labels of food products. we are also subject to regulation by certain other governmental agencies, including the u.s. department of agriculture. our operations and products are also subject to state and local regulation, including the registration and licensing of plants, enforcement by state health agencies of various state standards, and the registration and inspection of facilities. compliance with federal, state, and local regulation is costly and time-consuming. enforcement actions for violations of federal, state, and local regulations may include seizure and condemnation of products, cease and desist orders, injunctions, or monetary penalties. we believe that our practices are sufficient to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations. environmental, health and safety regulations we are subject to a number of federal, state, and local laws and other regulations relating to the protection of the environment and the safety and health of personnel and the public. these requirements apply to a broad range of our activities, including: the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; the identification, generation, storage, handling, transportation, disposal, recordkeeping, labeling, and reporting of, and emergency response in connection with, hazardous materials; noise emissions from our facilities; and safety and health standards, practices, and procedures that apply to the workplace and the operation of our facilities. in order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend substantial amounts of money and other resources from time to time to (i) construct or acquire new equipment, (ii) acquire or amend permits to authorize facility operations, (iii) modify, upgrade, or replace existing and proposed equipment, and (iv) clean up or decommission our facilities or other locations in accordance with regulatory requirements. our capital and operating budgets include costs and expenses associated with complying with these laws and other requirements. available information we make available, free of charge on our website at www.lambweston.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. we use our website, through the investors link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. the 10 table of contents information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the material risks affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be material that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future. risks relating to our business increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits. our business, value-added frozen potato products, is highly competitive. our principal competitors have substantial financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. a strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts could result in us reducing pricing, increasing promotional activity or losing market share. competitive pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other input cost increases or additional improvements in product quality. our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume. increased industry capacity may result in reduced sales or profits. in recent years, market demand for value-added frozen potato products has exceeded industry capacity to produce these products. as additional industry capacity comes online, or market demand otherwise decreases, we may face competitive pressures that would restrict our ability to increase or maintain prices. our profits would decrease as a result of a reduction in prices or sales volume. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations, including foreign currency risks and trade barriers. we conduct a substantial and growing amount of business with customers located outside the united states and canada, including through our joint ventures. a primary growth strategy for our business is increasing our international sales and operations. during fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, net sales outside the united states and canada, primarily in japan, china, korea, mexico, and taiwan, accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales. these amounts do not include any impact of unconsolidated net sales associated with our joint ventures. many factors relating to our international sales and operations, many of which factors are outside of our control, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: foreign exchange rates, foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions, which may unpredictably and adversely impact our combined operating results, asset and liability balances, and cash flow in our combined and consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency; our combined and consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars and we must translate the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars for external reporting purposes; 11 table of contents negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of wars, terrorist attacks, epidemics or civil unrest; pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters that may limit the supply of raw materials that are purchased abroad for use in our international operations or domestically; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the united states and foreign governments, including modification or termination of trade agreements or treaties, creation of new trade agreements or treaties, trade regulations, and tariffs, quotas, import or export licensing requirements, and other trade barriers imposed by governments; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; differing labor standards in the international markets in which we operate; differing levels of protection of intellectual property across the international markets in which we operate; difficulties and costs associated with complying with u.s. laws and regulations applicable to entities with overseas operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act; the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; varying regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative practices in the international markets in which we operate; difficulties associated with operating under a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; and potentially burdensome taxation. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. disruption of our access to export mechanisms could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. to serve our customers globally, we rely in part on our international joint venture partnerships, but also on exports from the united states. during fiscal 2017, export sales accounted for 21% of our total net sales. circumstances beyond our control, such as a labor dispute at a port, could prevent us from exporting our products in sufficient quantities to meet customer opportunities. we have access to production overseas through our facility in china and joint venture in europe, but we may be unsuccessful in mitigating any future disruption to export mechanisms. if this occurs, we may be unable to adequately supply all of our customer opportunities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our substantial debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the spinoff. as of may 28, 2017, we had approximately $2,402.9 million of long-term debt, including current portion, recorded on our combined and consolidated balance sheet. 12 table of contents we have the ability under our existing revolving credit facility to incur additional substantial debt. our level of debt could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. the agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. the credit agreement governing our term loan and revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: borrow money or guarantee debt; create liens; pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; make specified types of investments and acquisitions; enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; enter into transactions with affiliates; and sell assets or merge with other companies. these restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition, and other corporate opportunities. various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. a default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. in addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in a downgrade to our credit ratings. a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs. 13 table of contents our business relies on a potato crop that has a concentrated growing region. ideal growing conditions for the potatoes necessary for our value-added products (e.g., french fries) are concentrated in a few geographic regions globally. in the united states, most of the potato crop used in value-added products is grown in idaho, oregon, and washington. european growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in the netherlands, belgium, germany, france, and the united kingdom. recent agronomic developments have opened new growing regions, but the capital intensive nature of our industry production processes has kept production highly concentrated in the historical growing regions. unfavorable crop conditions in any one region could lead to significant demand on the other regions for production. our inability to mitigate any such conditions by leveraging our production capabilities in other regions could negatively impact our ability to meet customer needs and could decrease our profitability. our business is affected by potato crop performance. our primary input is potatoes and every year, we must procure potatoes that meet the quality standards for processing into value-added products. environmental and climate conditions, such as soil quality, moisture, and temperature, affect the quality of the potato crop on a year-to-year basis. as a result, we source potatoes from specific regions of the united states and specific countries abroad, including the netherlands, belgium, germany, france, and the united kingdom, where we believe the optimal potato growing conditions exist. however, severe weather conditions during the planting and growing season in these regions can significantly affect potato crop performance. potatoes are also susceptible to pest diseases and insects that can cause crop failure, decreased yields, and negatively affect the physical appearance of the potatoes. we have deep experience in agronomy and actively work to monitor and manage the potato crop. however, if a weather or pest-related event occurs in a particular crop year, and our agronomic programs are insufficient to mitigate the impacts thereof, we may have insufficient potatoes to meet our customer opportunities, and our competitiveness and profitability could decrease. alternatively, overly favorable growing conditions can lead to high per acre yields and over-supply. an increased supply of potatoes could lead to overproduction of finished goods or destruction of unused potatoes at a loss. increases in commodity costs may have a negative impact on profits. a significant portion of our cost of goods comes from commodities such as oil and energy. commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, external conditions such as weather and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. commodity price increases will increase operating costs. we may not be able to increase our product prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume, reduced margins and profitability. we have experience in hedging against commodity price increases. there is currently no active derivatives market for potatoes in the united states. in addition, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. as a result, the risk management procedures that we use may not always work as we intend. if we do not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category, our profitability could decrease. our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to maintain the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category. we continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that improve the efficiency of our supply chain and general and administrative functions. these initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative overhead levels. however, gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or the elimination of redundant costs could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. 14 table of contents changes in our relationships with our growers could adversely affect us. we expend considerable resources to develop and maintain relationships with many potato growers. in some instances, we have entered into long-term agreements with growers; however, a portion of our potato needs are typically sourced on an annual basis. to the extent we are unable to maintain positive relationships with our long-term growers, contracted growers deliver less supply than we expect, or we are unable to secure sufficient potatoes from uncontracted growers in a given year, we may not have sufficient potato supply to satisfy our business opportunities. to obtain sufficient potato supply, we may be required to purchase potatoes at prices substantially higher than expected, or forgo sales to some market segments, which would reduce our profitability. if we forgo sales to such market segments, we may lose customers and may not be able to replace them later. changes in our relationships with significant customers could adversely affect us. we maintain a diverse customer base across our four reporting segments. customers include global, national and regional quick serve and fast casual restaurants as well as small, independently operated restaurants, multinational, broadline foodservice distributors as well as regional foodservice distributors, and major food retailers. some of these customers independently represent a meaningful portion of our sales. while we contract annually or biannually with many of our foodservice customers, loss of a significant customer could materially impact the business. in addition, shelf space at food retailers is not guaranteed. during each of fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015 our largest customer, mcdonald corporation and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the sophistication and buying power of some of our customers could have a negative impact on profits. some of our customers are large and sophisticated, with buying power and negotiating strength. these customers may be more capable of resisting price increases and more likely to demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. in addition, some of these customers (e.g., larger distributors and supermarkets) have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own brands. we continue to implement initiatives to counteract these pressures, including efficiency programs and investments in innovation and quality. however, if we are unable to counteract the negotiating strength of these customers, our profitability could decline. we must identify changing consumer preferences and consumption trends and develop and offer food products to our customers that help meet those preferences. consumer preferences evolve over time and our success depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and offer products that appeal to those preferences. we need to continue to respond to these changing consumer preferences, and support our customers in their efforts to evolve to meet those preferences. for example, as consumers focus on freshly prepared foods, some restaurants may choose to limit the frying capabilities of their kitchens. as a result, we would need to evolve our product offering to provide alternatives that work in such a preparation environment. in addition, our products contain carbohydrates, sodium, genetically modified ingredients, added sugars, saturated fats, and preservatives, the diet and health effects of which remain the subject of public scrutiny. we must continue to reformulate our products, introduce new products and create product extensions without a loss of the taste, texture, and appearance that consumers demand in value-added potato products. all of these efforts require significant research and development and marketing investments. if our products fail to meet consumer preferences or customer requirements, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on those investments will be less than anticipated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 table of contents a portion of our business is, and several of our growth strategies will be, conducted through joint ventures that do not operate solely for our benefit. we have built our company, in part, through the creation of joint ventures, some of which we do not control. in these relationships, we share ownership and management of a company that operates for the benefit of all owners, rather than our exclusive benefit. through our extensive experience in operating our business through joint ventures, we understand that joint ventures often take additional resources and procedures for information sharing and decision-making. if our joint venture partners begin to take actions that have negative impacts on the joint venture, or begin to disagree with the strategies we have developed to grow these businesses, we may have limited ability to influence and mitigate those decisions and our ability to achieve our growth strategies may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to complete acquisitions that strategically fit our business objectives, or integrate acquired businesses or execute on large capital projects, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. our acquisition activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. those risks include: (i) diversion of management attention from existing businesses, (ii) difficulties integrating personnel and financial and other systems, (iii) difficulties implementing effective control environment processes, (iv) adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, (v) inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings, (vi) potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and (vii) indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses or execute on large capital projects, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. new regulations imposed by the fda or efsa around acrylamide formation in french fried potato products could adversely affect us. the regulation of food products, both within the united states and internationally, continues to be a focus for governmental scrutiny. the presence and/or formation of acrylamide in french fried potato products has become a global regulatory issue as both the fda and the european food safety authority ( efsa ) have issued guidance to the food processing industry to work to reduce conditions that favor the formation of this naturally occurring compound. acrylamide formation is the result of heat processing reactions that give browned foods their desirable flavor. acrylamide formation occurs in many food types in the human diet, including but not limited to breads, toast, cookies, coffee, crackers, potatoes, and olives. currently, the regulatory approach to acrylamide has generally been to encourage the industry to achieve as low as reasonably achievable content levels through process control (temperature) and material testing (low sugar and low asparagine). however, limits for acrylamide content have been established for some food types in the state of california, and point of sale consumer warnings are required if products exceed those limits. if the global regulatory approach to acrylamide changes and stringent legal limits are established, our manufacturing costs could increase. in addition, if consumer perception regarding the safety of our products is negatively impacted due to regulation, sales of our products could possibly decrease. if we fail to comply with the many laws applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties. our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the u.s. department of agriculture, the fda, the occupational safety and health administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, the health and safety of our employees, and the protection of the environment. our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. 16 table of contents our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the environmental protection agency, and comparable state agencies, which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. litigation could expose us to significant costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to commercial liability, product recalls, product liability, product claims, employment matters, environmental matters, or other aspects of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and although we may believe we have meaningful defenses in these matters, we may incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the costs of responding to or defending litigation may be significant and may divert the attention of management away from our strategic objectives. there may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease customer confidence in our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. as a result, litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our relationships with customers and harm our business. we sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. we may voluntarily recall or withdraw products from the market in certain circumstances, which would cause us to incur associated costs; those costs could be meaningful. we may also be subject to litigation, requests for indemnification from our customers, or liability if the consumption or inadequate preparation of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. a significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, customer reaction, and consumer attitudes. even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. additionally, as a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and other national, state and local government agencies. the food, drug &amp; cosmetic act and the food safety modernization act and their respective regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of food products. some aspects of these laws use a strict liability standard for imposing sanctions on corporate behavior; meaning that no intent is required to be established. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. damage to our reputation as a trusted partner to customers and good corporate citizen could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our customers rely on us and our co-manufacturers to manufacture safe, high quality food products. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may damage the reputation of our customers, and 17 table of contents ultimately our reputation as a trusted industry partner. damage to either could reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for our operations and activities; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management; our failure to comply with local laws and regulations; our failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls; or our failure to provide accurate and timely financial information. damage to our reputation or loss of customer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. we anticipate upgrading our information technology infrastructure, and expect to implement a new enterprise resource planning system. problems with the transition, design or implementation of this upgrade could interfere with our business and operations and adversely affect our financial condition. under a transition services agreement entered into in connection with the separation, conagra currently provides us with information technology services, which, under the agreement, terminates on february 28, 2018. we are currently investigating upgrade options for our information technology infrastructure, including a long-term plan to implement a new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system and other complementary information technology systems after we transition from conagra, which we expect to implement in fiscal 2019. we may experience difficulties as we transition to new upgraded systems and processes. these disruptions may include loss of data; difficulty in processing customer orders, shipping products, or providing services and support to our customers; difficulty in billing and tracking our orders; difficulty in completing financial reporting and filing reports with the sec in a timely manner; or challenges in otherwise running our business. we may also experience decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with new systems. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the transition, design, and implementation of an upgraded information technology infrastructure, or a new erp system, particularly any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies that impact our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we do not encounter adverse effects, the transition, design, and implementation of an upgraded information technology infrastructure, or new erp system, may be much more costly than we anticipated. 18 table of contents there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. we do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system objectives will be met. the design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. in addition, beginning with our annual report on form 10-k for our fiscal year ending may 27, 2018, we will be required to furnish a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. we are in the process of designing, implementing, and testing the internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation, which process is time consuming, costly, and complicated. because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. if our controls become inadequate, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, our reputation may be adversely affected, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, and the market price of our stock could decline. if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain personnel with professional and technical expertise, such as agricultural and food manufacturing experience, as well as finance, marketing, and other senior management professionals. the market for these employees is competitive, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. if we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting new high-quality employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected. the potential disruption from cyber attacks and information security problems present new risks. we are increasingly dependent on information technology networks and systems, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain and protect the related automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. if any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. in addition, there is a risk of business interruption, litigation risks, and reputational damage from leakage of confidential information. climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather, and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as potatoes and oils. in addition, water is an important part of potato processing. we may be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. the increasing concern 19 table of contents over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, as well as more stringent regulation of water rights. in the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions, improve our energy efficiency, and reduce and reuse water, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. deterioration of general economic conditions could harm our business and results of operations. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact our business and operations in a variety of ways, including as follows: decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly fast food and casual dining, which may adversely affect our business; volatility in commodity and other input costs could substantially impact our result of operations; volatility in the financial markets or interest rates could substantially impact our pension costs and required pension contributions; it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and within a time period acceptable to us; and it may become more costly to access funds internationally. impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth. as of may 28, 2017, we had goodwill of $133.0 million and other intangibles of $37.2 million. the net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). the net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer and could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth. 20 table of contents risks relating to our recent spinoff we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spinoff. we have incurred additional expenses to create the corporate infrastructure necessary to operate as an independent public company, and we will experience increased ongoing costs in connection with being an independent public company. we believe that, as an independent public company, we are able to, among other matters, better focus our resources on our specific business, long-term opportunities and growth strategies, design and implement corporate strategies and policies targeted to our operational focus and strategic priorities, and implement and maintain a capital structure and financial policy designed to meet our specific needs. however, we may be unable to achieve some or all of these benefits. in addition, in connection with the spinoff, we have incurred transaction and related costs of approximately $31.8 million ($26.5 million in fiscal 2017 and $5.3 million in fiscal 2016), which are not considered part of our ongoing operations. we expect to incur additional ongoing costs related to operating as an independent public company and replacing the services previously provided by conagra. prior to the spinoff, our business used conagra corporate infrastructure and services to support our business functions. the expenses related to establishing and maintaining this infrastructure were spread across all of conagra businesses and charged to us on a cost-allocation basis. except for certain services provided to us on a transitional basis pursuant to a transition services agreement, we no longer have access to conagra infrastructure or services, and we must establish our own. the services historically provided to us by conagra have included treasury and cash management, procurement, information technology, general accounting and finance, payroll and human resources, legal and communications, real estate and facilities, and other general and administrative stewardship. we cannot assure you that all these functions will be successfully executed by conagra during the transition period or that we will not have to expend significant efforts or costs materially in excess of those estimated in the transition services agreement. any interruption in these services could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. in addition, at the end of this transition period, we will need to perform these functions ourselves or hire third parties to perform these functions on our behalf. if we are unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company, do not achieve them in the time we expect, or incur significant unanticipated costs related to operating as an independent company, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we have a limited operating history as an independent public company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows nor do they reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented. our historical financial statements do not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. this is primarily a result of the following factors: our historical combined financial results reflect allocations of expenses for services historically provided by conagra, and may not fully reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent public company, including significant changes in our cost structure, management, financing arrangements, and business operations as a result of our spinoff from conagra; our working capital requirements and capital expenditures historically have been satisfied as part of conagra corporate-wide capital access, capital allocation, and cash management programs; our debt structure and cost of debt and other capital is significantly different from that reflected in our historical combined financial statements; and 21 table of contents the historical combined financial information may not fully reflect the effects of certain liabilities that were incurred or assumed by us and may not fully reflect the effects of certain assets that were transferred to, and liabilities that were assumed by, conagra. if the spinoff is taxable to conagra as a result of a breach by us of any covenant or representation made by us in the tax matters agreement, we will generally be required to indemnify conagra; the obligation to make a payment on this indemnification obligation could have a material adverse effect on us. it was intended that the spinoff, together with certain related transactions, would qualify as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( code ) and a tax-free distribution within the meaning of section 355 of the code. in connection with the spinoff, conagra received an opinion of tax counsel to the effect that those transactions will qualify for their intended tax treatment. however, an opinion of tax counsel does not preclude the internal revenue service ( irs ) or the courts from adopting a contrary position. the tax opinion relied on certain representations, covenants, and assumptions, including those relating to our and conagra past and future conduct; if any of those representations, covenants or assumptions is inaccurate, the tax consequences of the spinoff could differ from the intended tax treatment. if the spinoff and/or certain related transactions fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, for any reason, conagra and/or holders of its common stock would be subject to tax as a result of the spinoff and certain related transactions. if the spinoff and/or the related transactions are not treated as tax-free transactions or are taxable to conagra due to a breach by us (or any of our subsidiaries) of any covenant or representation made by us in the tax matters agreement, we will generally be required to indemnify conagra for all tax-related losses suffered by conagra in connection with the spinoff. in addition, we will not control the resolution of any tax contest relating to taxes suffered by conagra in connection with the spinoff, and we may not control the resolution of tax contests relating to any other taxes for which we may ultimately have an indemnity obligation under a tax matters agreement. in the event that conagra suffers tax-related losses in connection with the spinoff that must be indemnified by us under the tax matters agreement, the indemnification liability could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to significant restrictions under the tax matters agreement. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax matters agreement with conagra. the tax matters agreement generally prohibits us, during the two-year period following the spinoff, from taking certain actions that could cause the spinoff and certain related transactions to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions. these restrictions include: we may not cause or permit certain business combinations or transactions to occur; we may not discontinue the active conduct of our business (within the meaning of section 355(b)(2) of the code); we may not sell or otherwise issue our common stock, other than pursuant to issuances that satisfy certain regulatory safe harbors set forth in treasury regulations related to stock issued to employees and retirement plans; we may not redeem or otherwise acquire any of our common stock, other than pursuant to certain open-market repurchases of less than 20% of our common stock (in the aggregate); and we may not amend our certificate of incorporation (or other organizational documents) or take any other action, whether through a stockholder vote or otherwise, affecting the voting rights of our common stock. 22 table of contents in addition, during the five-year period following the spinoff, we may not retire, repurchase, or significantly modify our senior notes. further, more generally, we may not take any action that could reasonably be expected to cause the spinoff and certain related transactions to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions under section 368(a)(1)(d) and section 355 of the code. if we take any of the actions above and the actions result in tax-related losses to conagra, we generally will be required to indemnify conagra for such tax-related losses under the tax matters agreement. due to these restrictions and indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement, we may be limited in our ability to pursue strategic transactions, equity or convertible debt financings or other transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. also, our potential indemnity obligation to conagra might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities following the spinoff, including potential indemnification liabilities to conagra, and these liabilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with conagra that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff, and provisions governing the relationship between our company and conagra with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to the lamb weston business, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, and whether known or unknown at the time of the spinoff, as well as those obligations of conagra assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement. if we are required to indemnify conagra under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, or meaningful unknown liabilities surface, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. in addition, under the code and applicable treasury regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conagra consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the completion of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire conagra consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. similar rules may apply for state, local, and non-u.s. tax purposes. in addition, the tax matters agreement with conagra allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of any conagra consolidated, combined, unitary or other tax reporting group between us and conagra. however, if conagra is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible under the tax matters agreement, we could be required to pay the entire amount of those taxes, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in connection with the separation, conagra will indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that conagra ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, conagra agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conagra has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from conagra will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of those liabilities, or that conagra will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conagra any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. if conagra is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. further, conagra insurers may deny coverage to us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from such insurance providers, we may be required to temporarily bear such loss of coverage. 23 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on our future cash flows. (d) we enter into operating leases in the normal course of business. we lease some of our warehouses and operating facilities, as well as other property and equipment, under operating leases. some lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the lease or purchase the leased property. our operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options and/or if we entered into additional operating lease agreements. (e) includes interest payments associated with financing obligations of $33.8 million. (f) amount includes open purchase orders and agreements, some of which are not legally binding and/or may be cancellable. such agreements are generally settleable in the ordinary course of business in less than one year. excludes purchase commitments under potato supply agreements due to uncertainty of pricing and quantity. potato supply agreements have maximum contracted pricing with deductions for certain quality attributes, and quantities purchased are determined by the yields produced on contracted acres. total purchases under potato supply agreements were $596.1 million, $571.0 million, and $581.0 million in fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. (g) long-term deferred income taxes of $90.5 million are excluded from this table, because the timing of their future cash outflows are uncertain. (h) amounts primarily consist of pension, post-retirement obligations, stock-based payment obligations, and deferred compensation plans. see note 7, employee benefit plans and other post-retirement benefits, and note 10, stock-based compensation, of the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our operations are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices affecting the cost of raw materials and energy, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. in the normal course of business, we periodically enter into derivatives to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. based on our open commodity contract hedge positions as of may 28, 2017, a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market prices applied to the fair value of the instruments would result in a charge to cost of sales of approximately $4.4 million ($2.8 million net of income tax benefit). it should be noted that any change in the fair value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be substantially offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged item. 44 table of contents at may 28, 2017, we had $1,688.7 million of fixed-rate and $695.4 million of variable-rate debt outstanding. we have interest rate risk associated with our variable-rate debt. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable-rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of approximately $7.1 million annually. for more information about our market risks, see note 9, debt and financing obligations, and note 12, derivative financial instruments, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors in this report. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report, which speak only as of the date of this report. we undertake no responsibility for updating these statements, except as required by law. part i item 1. business lamb weston holdings, inc. ( we, us, our, the company, or lamb weston ), along with its joint venture partners, is a leading global producer, distributor, and marketer of value-added frozen potato products and is headquartered in eagle, idaho. we, along with our joint venture partners, are the number one supplier of value-added frozen potato products in north america. we are also a leading supplier of value-added frozen potato products internationally, with a strong and growing presence in high-growth emerging markets. we, along with our joint venture partners, offer a broad product portfolio to a diverse channel and customer base in over 100 countries. french fries represent the majority of our value-added frozen potato product portfolio. we were organized as a delaware corporation in july 2016, as a wholly owned subsidiary of conagra brands, inc. (formerly, conagra foods, inc., conagra ). on november 9, 2016, we separated from conagra and became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by conagra of 100% of our outstanding common stock to conagra stockholders ( separation or spinoff ). each conagra stockholder of record on november 1, 2016 ( record date ) received one share of our common stock for every three shares of conagra common stock held on the record date. as a result of the separation, approximately 146 million shares of our common stock were distributed on november 9, 2016, to conagra stockholders. on november 10, 2016, our common stock began trading under the ticker symbol lw on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). in connection with the separation, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and several other agreements with conagra, including a transition services agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, and trademark license agreement. these agreements govern the relationship between us and conagra following the separation and provide for the allocation of various assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the parties. these agreements also include arrangements for transition services to be provided by conagra to lamb weston. for a discussion of these agreements, see the section entitled relationship with conagra after the spinoff in our registration statement on form 10, as amended, as filed with the sec on october 17, 2016 ( form 10 ), and note 3, related party transactions, 3 table of contents of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this form 10-k. in april 2018, we concluded our transition services agreement with conagra. in connection with the separation, conagra transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of the lamb weston business to us. combined financial statements for lamb weston for periods prior to the separation were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from conagra consolidated financial statements and accounting records. the combined financial statements for lamb weston contained in this report for periods prior to the separation reflect our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, and cash flows as our business was operated as part of conagra prior to the separation and include allocations for a portion of conagra shared corporate general and administrative expenses. following the separation, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of lamb weston holdings, inc., its wholly owned subsidiaries, and lamb weston bsw, llc, which we own a 49.99% interest in, but we consolidate because we are the primary beneficiary. the combined financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as of dates and for periods prior to the separation may not be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate stand-alone public company during the periods presented, nor are they indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be in the future. information related to the separation and its effect on our financial statements are discussed throughout this form 10 k. segments we have four reportable segments: global, foodservice, retail, and other. for segment financial information see note 13, segments, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10 k. global our global segment includes branded and private label frozen potato products sold in north america and international markets. this segment includes the top 100 north american based restaurant chains and international customers comprised of global and regional restaurant chains, foodservice distributors, and retailers. we have included non-u.s. and non-canadian retail and foodservice customers in the global segment due to efficiencies associated with coordinating sales to all customer types within specific markets, as well as due to these customers smaller scale and dependence on local economic conditions. the global segment product portfolio includes frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, and appetizers sold under the lamb weston brand, as well as many customer labels. foodservice our foodservice segment includes branded and private label frozen potato products sold throughout the united states and canada. the foodservice segment primary products are frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, commercial ingredients, and appetizers sold under the lamb weston brand, as well as many customer labels. our products are sold primarily to commercial distributors, restaurant chains outside the top 100 north american based restaurant chains, and non-commercial channels. retail our retail segment includes consumer facing retail branded and private label frozen potato products sold primarily to grocery, mass merchants, club, and specialty retailers. the retail segment primary products are frozen potatoes and sweet potato items sold under our owned or licensed brands, including grown in idaho and alexia , other licensed equities comprised of brand names of major north american restaurant chains, and the retailers own brands. other the other reporting segment primarily includes our vegetable and dairy businesses. 4 table of contents joint venture relationships we conduct business through two unconsolidated joint ventures and include our share of the earnings of these affiliates as equity method investment earnings in our combined and consolidated financial statements based on our economic ownership interest in each of these joint ventures. these two joint ventures produce and market value-added frozen potato products for our customers: we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb-weston/meijer v.o.f. ( lamb-weston/meijer ), a joint venture with meijer frozen foods b.v. that is, headquartered in the netherlands, and manufactures and sells frozen potato products principally in europe. we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb-weston/rdo frozen ( lamb-weston/rdo ), a potato processing venture with rdo frozen co. we provide all sales and marketing services to lamb-weston/rdo and receive a fee for these services based on a percentage of the net sales of the venture. in addition, we hold a 49.99% interest in lamb weston bsw, llc ( lamb weston bsw ), a potato processing venture with ochoa ag unlimited foods, inc. ( ochoa ). we provide all sales and marketing services to lamb weston bsw. lamb weston bsw is a variable interest entity, and we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary of the entity. we consolidate the financial statements of lamb weston bsw. in june 2018, we provided notice to ochoa of our exercise of a call option to purchase ochoa interest in lamb weston bsw. we expect to pay approximately $65 million and will consummate the transaction as soon as practicable. for more information, see note 6, investments in joint ventures, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. sales, distribution and customers we benefit from strong relationships with a diverse set of customers. we sell our products through a combined network of internal sales personnel and independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain restaurants, wholesale, grocery, mass merchants, club, specialty retailers, and foodservice distributors and institutions, including businesses, educational institutions, independent restaurants, regional chain restaurants, and convenience stores. we have long-tenured relationships with leading quick service and fast casual restaurants, global foodservice distributors, large grocery retailers, and mass merchants. our largest customer, mcdonald corporation, accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in each of fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016. no other customer accounted for more than 10% of our fiscal 2018, 2017, or 2016 consolidated net sales. accounts receivable from another customer accounted for 12% of our consolidated accounts receivable at may 27, 2018. accounts receivable from an additional customer accounted for 10% of our consolidated accounts receivable at may 28, 2017. international operations at may 27, 2018, we had operations in twelve countries, with manufacturing and processing facilities in three countries. foreign net sales, including sales by domestic segments to customers located outside of the united states and canada, were approximately $665.8 million, $663.5 million, and $615.9 million in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. our long-lived assets located outside of the united states are not significant. see note 13, segments, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k for additional information on our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. also see item 2. properties, for more information on our manufacturing and other facilities. for a discussion of risks related to our operations outside the united states, see item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. 5 table of contents research and development we leverage our research and development resources for both growth and efficiency initiatives. we seek to drive growth through innovation by creating new products, enhancing the quality of existing products, and participating in joint menu planning exercises with our customers. we also emphasize sustainability in our research and development activities and continue to drive processing innovations aimed at reducing waste and water usage. research and development expense was $13.5 million, $10.6 million, and $6.7 million in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. raw materials and packaging our primary raw materials are potatoes, edible oils, energy, and packaging. we source a significant amount of our raw potatoes under both strategic, long-term grower relationships and shorter-term annual contracts. in the united states, most of the potato crop used in value-added products is grown in idaho, oregon, and washington. for lamb-weston/meijer, european growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in the netherlands, belgium, germany, france, the united kingdom, and china. we believe that the grower networks to which we have access provide a sufficient source of raw potato inputs year-to-year. we source edible oils through strategic relationships with key suppliers, and we source energy and packaging materials through multiple suppliers under a variety of agreement types. the prices paid for these raw materials, as well as other raw materials used in making our products, generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply. from time to time, we have faced increased costs for our significant raw materials, packaging and energy inputs. we seek to mitigate higher input costs through long-term relationships, contract strategies, and hedging activities where an active market for an input exists, as well as through our productivity and pricing initiatives. manufacturing we own and operate 15 manufacturing facilities for our products. see "item 2. properties" for more information about our manufacturing facilities. in addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we source a portion of our products under co-packing agreements, a common industry practice in which manufacturing is outsourced to other companies. we regularly evaluate our co-packing arrangements to ensure the most cost-effective manufacturing of our products and to utilize company-owned manufacturing facilities most effectively. backlog we manufacture primarily to fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. while at any given time there may be some backlog of orders due to the seasonal nature of our manufacturing activities and associated inventory, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant. competition the value-added frozen potato products industry in both north america and international markets is highly competitive. competitors include large national and international frozen potato product companies, as well as local and regional companies. significant competitors include mccain foods, j.r. simplot company, cavendish farms, and the kraft heinz company. some of our competitors are larger and have substantially more financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. we compete with producers of similar products on the basis of, among other things, customer service, 6 table of contents value, product innovation, product quality, food safety, brand recognition and loyalty, price, and the ability to identify and satisfy customer preferences. the markets in which we operate are expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. see also item 1a. risk factors increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits of this form 10-k. trademarks, licenses and patents our trademarks are material to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the united states and most other geographic markets where the related food items are sold. depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use and their registration status is maintained. trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. our significant trademarks include: lamb weston, lamb supreme, lamb weston seeing possibilities in potatoes (and design), lamb seasoned, lw private reserve, stealth fries, and sweet things. we also sell certain products under brands, such as grown in idaho and alexia , which we license from third parties. we own numerous patents worldwide. we consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions, including packaging, manufacturing processes, equipment, formulations, and designs. our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. while we consider our patent portfolio to be material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. seasonality our product contribution margin percentage, inventory levels, net sales and cash flows are affected by seasonality. in general, our product contribution margin percentage tends to be highest in our fiscal third quarter, reflecting the benefit of freshly-harvested potatoes. we typically harvest potatoes in the pacific northwest of the united states in july through october, which is primarily in our fiscal second quarter. freshly-harvested potatoes process more efficiently in our production lines and are not subject to storage or secondary transport costs. we typically hold about 60 days of finished goods inventory on a first-in-first-out basis, so the relatively favorable costs primarily incurred from our fiscal second quarter harvest flow through our income statement in our fiscal third quarter. inventory levels also tend to be higher in our fiscal third quarter, requiring more working capital at that time. in general, net sales and cash flows tend to be higher in our fiscal fourth quarter, reflecting customer and consumer buying patterns. employees as of june 30, 2018, we had approximately 7,200 employees, excluding our joint ventures. approximately 700 of these employees work outside of the united states. approximately 26% of our hourly employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements on terms that we believe are typical for the industry in which we operate. most of the union workers at our facilities are represented under contracts that expire at various times throughout the next several years. approximately 44% expire in fiscal 2019. as these agreements expire, we believe they will be renegotiated on terms satisfactory to us. 7 table of contents executive officers the following are our executive officers as of july 16, 2018: name title age thomas p. werner director, president and chief executive officer 52 robert m. mcnutt senior vice president and chief financial officer 58 micheline c. carter senior vice president and chief human resources officer 52 richard a. martin senior vice president and chief supply chain officer 61 sharon l. miller senior vice president and general manager, global business unit 52 michael j. smith senior vice president and general manager, foodservice and retail business units and marketing and innovation 41 eryk j. spytek senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary 50 thomas p. werner has served as our president and chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors since november 2016. he previously served as president, commercial foods, for conagra, a food company, since may 2015. in that role, he led the company lamb weston and foodservice businesses, as well as its previously divested spicetec flavors &amp; seasonings and j.m. swank operations. mr. werner also served as interim president of conagra private brands from june 2015 through its divestiture in february 2016. before his appointment as president, commercial foods, mr. werner served as senior vice president of finance for conagra private brands and commercial foods operating segments from june 2013 to april 2015, and senior vice president of finance for lamb weston from may 2011 until june 2013. robert m. mcnutt has served as our senior vice president and chief financial officer since january 2017. prior to joining lamb weston, mr. mcnutt served as chief financial officer of expera specialty solutions, llc, a specialty paper company, from september 2013 to december 2016. mr. mcnutt served as senior vice president and chief financial officer for greif, inc., an industrial packaging company, from january 2011 to july 2013, and as senior vice president and chief financial officer for boise inc., a packaging and paper products manufacturer, from february 2008 to january 2011. micheline c. carter has served as our senior vice president and chief human resources officer since november 2016. ms. carter joined lamb weston in september 2016. from july 2012 until september 2016, she served in a variety of roles with the kraft heinz company, a food and beverage company, including as head of u.s. people and performance and global corporate functions from november 2015 to september 2016, vice president of human resources, global corporate functions from august 2015 until october 2015, vice president of human resources, cheese &amp; dairy from january 2015 until july 2015, and senior director human resources &amp; global exports from july 2012 until january 2015. before joining the kraft heinz company, ms. carter served from february 2011 until july 2012 as senior director human resources, solar energy &amp; solar materials with memc electronic materials, inc. (now known as sunedison, inc.), a supplier of silicon wafers to semiconductor and photovoltaic cell companies. before that, ms. carter served in a variety of roles with j. c. penney company, inc., an apparel and home furnishings retailer, yum! brands, inc., an operator of fast food companies, and texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor design and manufacturing company. richard a. martin has served as our senior vice president and chief supply chain officer since september 2016. mr. martin joined conagra as a manufacturing manager in 1994, and from 1997 to 2003, he served as plant manager of several of our facilities. mr. martin also served as director of operations from 2003 to 2005, vice president, manufacturing from 2005 to 2011, and vice president, global operations from 2011 until 2016. before joining lamb weston, mr. martin spent 15 years at general foods corporation and kraft foods inc., food and beverage companies, in a variety of engineering and manufacturing positions. 8 table of contents sharon l. miller has served as our senior vice president and general manager, global business unit since september 2016. before that, she served as conagra vice president and general manager, lamb weston global business unit since 2015. since joining conagra in 1999, ms. miller has held various leadership positions, including vice president of sales for lamb weston's european joint venture, lamb-weston/meijer v.o.f. prior to that, ms. miller was a key sales and business leader within lamb weston in both the united states and canada. she also has held various sales positions with north american food manufacturers and foodservice distributors. michael j. smith has served as our senior vice president and general manager, foodservice and retail business units and marketing and innovation since april 2018. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, growth and strategy beginning in september 2016. mr. smith also served as vice president and general manager of lamb weston retail from may 2011 to september 2016, vice president and general manager of conagra private brands from march 2014 to february 2016, and vice president of global marketing of lamb weston from july 2012 to march 2014. prior to joining conagra in 2007, mr. smith held various brand management roles at dean foods company, a food and beverage company, and its whitewave division from may 2003 until december 2007. eryk j. spytek has served as our senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since october 2016. from june 2015 until october 2016, mr. spytek was of counsel at winston &amp; strawn llp, a law firm. before returning to winston &amp; strawn llp, he served from december 2009 until april 2015 in a variety of roles with mead johnson nutrition company, a manufacturer of infant formula, including as vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary from april 2013 to april 2015 and as vice president, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from december 2009 to april 2013. before that, mr. spytek served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary at sirva, inc., a moving and relocation services provider, from february 2006 to february 2009. before joining sirva, inc., mr. spytek was a partner at winston &amp; strawn llp. ethics and governance we have adopted a code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior corporate financial officers that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and controller. these codes are available on our website at www.lambweston.com through the investors corporate governance link. we will disclose any waiver we grant to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or controller under our codes, or certain amendments to the codes, on our website at www.lambweston.com. in addition, we adopted corporate governance principles and charters for the audit and finance committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, and compensation committee. all of these materials are available on our website at www.lambweston.com and will be provided free of charge to any stockholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, lamb weston holdings, inc., 599 s. rivershore lane, eagle, idaho 83616. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. food safety and labeling we are subject to extensive regulation, including, among other things, the food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended by the food safety modernization act, the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). this comprehensive and evolving regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, labeling, packaging, and safety of food, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices. in addition, the nutrition label reform act of 2016 prescribes the format and content in which specific nutrition information is required to appear on the labels of food products. we are also subject to regulation by certain other governmental agencies, including the u.s. department of agriculture. 9 table of contents our operations and products are also subject to state and local regulation, including the registration and licensing of plants, enforcement by state health agencies of various state standards, and the registration and inspection of facilities. compliance with federal, state, and local regulation is costly and time-consuming. enforcement actions for violations of federal, state, and local regulations may include seizure and condemnation of products, cease and desist orders, injunctions, or monetary penalties. we believe that our practices are sufficient to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations. environmental, health and safety regulations we are subject to a number of federal, state, and local laws and other regulations relating to the protection of the environment and the safety and health of personnel and the public. these requirements apply to a broad range of our activities, including: the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; the identification, generation, storage, handling, transportation, disposal, recordkeeping, labeling, and reporting of, and emergency response in connection with, hazardous materials; noise emissions from our facilities; and safety and health standards, practices, and procedures that apply to the workplace and the operation of our facilities. in order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend substantial amounts of money and other resources from time to time to (i) construct or acquire new equipment, (ii) acquire or amend permits to authorize facility operations, (iii) modify, upgrade, or replace existing and proposed equipment, and (iv) clean up or decommission our facilities or other locations in accordance with regulatory requirements. our capital and operating budgets include costs and expenses associated with complying with these laws and other requirements. available information we make available, free of charge on our website at www.lambweston.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. we use our website, through the investors link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec unless expressly noted. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the material risks affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be material that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits. our business, value-added frozen potato products, is highly competitive. our principal competitors have substantial financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. a strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts could result in us reducing pricing, increasing promotional activity or losing market share. competitive pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other input cost increases or additional improvements in product quality. our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume. 10 table of contents increased industry capacity may result in reduced sales or profits. in recent years, market demand for value-added frozen potato products has exceeded industry capacity to produce these products. as additional industry capacity comes online, or market demand otherwise decreases, we may face competitive pressures that would restrict our ability to increase or maintain prices. our profits would decrease as a result of a reduction in prices or sales volume. our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations, including foreign currency risks and trade barriers. we conduct a substantial and growing amount of business with customers located outside the united states and canada, including through our joint ventures. during each of fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, net sales outside the united states and canada, primarily in japan, china, korea, mexico, and taiwan, accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales. these amounts do not include any impact of unconsolidated net sales associated with our joint ventures, which are also subject to risks associated with international operations. many factors relating to our international sales and operations, many of which factors are outside of our control, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: foreign exchange rates, foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions, which may unpredictably and adversely impact our combined operating results, asset and liability balances, and cash flow in our combined and consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency; our combined and consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, and we must translate the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars for external reporting purposes; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the united states and foreign governments, including modification or termination of existing trade agreements (e.g., the north american free trade agreement ( nafta )) or treaties, creation of new trade agreements or treaties, trade regulations, and increased or new tariffs, quotas, import or export licensing requirements, and other trade barriers imposed by governments. in particular, changes in u.s. trade programs and trade relations with other countries, including the imposition of trade protection measures by foreign countries in favor of their local producers of competing products, such as governmental subsidies, tax benefits, and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over lamb weston, may adversely affect our business and results of operations in those countries; negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of wars, terrorist attacks, epidemics or civil unrest; pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters that may limit the supply of raw materials that are purchased abroad for use in our international operations or domestically; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; differing labor standards in the international markets in which we operate; differing levels of protection of intellectual property across the international markets in which we operate; 11 table of contents difficulties and costs associated with complying with u.s. laws and regulations applicable to entities with overseas operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act; the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; varying regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative practices in the international markets in which we operate; difficulties associated with operating under a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; and potentially burdensome taxation. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. disruption of our access to export mechanisms could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. to serve our customers globally, we rely in part on our international joint venture partnerships, but also on exports from the united states. during fiscal 2018, export sales accounted for 19% of our total net sales. circumstances beyond our control, such as a labor dispute at a port, could prevent us from exporting our products in sufficient quantities to meet customer opportunities. we have access to production overseas through our facility in china and joint venture in europe, but we may be unsuccessful in mitigating any future disruption to export mechanisms. if this occurs, we may be unable to adequately supply all of our customer opportunities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our substantial debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the separation. as of may 27, 2018, we had $2,375.4 million of long-term debt, including current portion, recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. we have the ability under our existing revolving credit facility to incur additional substantial debt. our level of debt could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. 12 table of contents the agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. the credit agreement governing our term loan and revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: borrow money or guarantee debt; create liens; pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; make specified types of investments and acquisitions; enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; enter into transactions with affiliates; and sell assets or merge with other companies. these restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition, and other corporate opportunities. various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. a default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. in addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in a downgrade to our credit ratings. a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs. our business relies on a potato crop that has a concentrated growing region. ideal growing conditions for the potatoes necessary for our value-added products (e.g., french fries) are concentrated in a few geographic regions globally. in the united states, most of the potato crop used in value-added products is grown in idaho, oregon, and washington. european growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in belgium, france, germany, the netherlands, and the united kingdom. recent agronomic developments have opened new growing regions, but the capital-intensive nature of our industry production processes has kept production highly concentrated in the historical growing regions. unfavorable crop conditions in any one region could lead to significant demand on the other regions for production. our inability to mitigate any such conditions by leveraging our production capabilities in other regions could negatively impact our ability to meet customer opportunities and could decrease our profitability. our business is affected by potato crop performance. our primary input is potatoes and every year, we must procure potatoes that meet the quality standards for processing into value-added products. environmental and climate conditions, such as soil quality, moisture, and 13 table of contents temperature, affect the quality of the potato crop on a year-to-year basis. as a result, we source potatoes from specific regions of the united states and specific countries abroad, including belgium, france, germany, the netherlands, the united kingdom, canada, and china, where we believe the optimal potato growing conditions exist. however, severe weather conditions during the planting and growing season in these regions can significantly affect potato crop performance. potatoes are also susceptible to pest diseases and insects that can cause crop failure, decreased yields, and negatively affect the physical appearance of the potatoes. we have deep experience in agronomy and actively work to monitor the potato crop. however, if a weather or pest-related event occurs in a particular crop year, and our agronomic programs are insufficient to mitigate the impacts thereof, we may have insufficient potatoes to meet our customer opportunities, and our competitiveness and profitability could decrease. alternatively, overly favorable growing conditions can lead to high per acre yields and over-supply. an increased supply of potatoes could lead to overproduction of finished goods or destruction of unused potatoes at a loss. increases in commodity costs may have a negative impact on profits. a significant portion of our cost of goods comes from commodities such as oil and energy. commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, external conditions such as weather and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. commodity price increases will increase our operating costs. we may not be able to increase our product prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume and decreased profitability. there is currently no active derivatives market for potatoes in the united states. although we have experience in hedging against commodity price increases, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. as a result, the risk management procedures that we use may not always work as we intend. if we do not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category, our profitability could decrease. our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to maintain the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category. we continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that improve the efficiency of our supply chain and general and administrative functions. these initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative overhead levels. however, gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or the elimination of redundant costs could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. changes in our relationships with our growers could adversely affect us. we expend considerable resources to develop and maintain relationships with many potato growers. in some instances, we have entered into long-term agreements with growers; however, a portion of our potato needs are typically sourced on an annual basis. to the extent we are unable to maintain positive relationships with our long-term growers, contracted growers deliver less supply than we expect, or we are unable to secure sufficient potatoes from uncontracted growers in a given year, we may not have sufficient potato supply to satisfy our business opportunities. to obtain sufficient potato supply, we may be required to purchase potatoes at prices substantially higher than expected, or forgo sales to some market segments, which would reduce our profitability. if we forgo sales to such market segments, we may lose customers and may not be able to replace them later. changes in our relationships with significant customers could adversely affect us. we maintain a diverse customer base across our four reporting segments. customers include global, national and regional quick serve and fast casual restaurants as well as small, independently operated restaurants, multinational, broadline foodservice distributors, as well as regional foodservice distributors, and major food retailers. some of these 14 table of contents customers independently represent a meaningful portion of our sales. while we contract annually or biannually with many of our foodservice customers, loss of a significant customer could materially impact the business. in addition, shelf space at food retailers is not guaranteed. during each of fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, our largest customer, mcdonald corporation and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the sophistication and buying power of some of our customers could have a negative impact on profits. some of our customers are large and sophisticated, with buying power and negotiating strength. these customers may be more capable of resisting price increases and more likely to demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. in addition, some of these customers (e.g., larger distributors and supermarkets) have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own brands. we continue to implement initiatives to counteract these pressures, including efficiency programs and investments in innovation and quality. however, if we are unable to counteract the negotiating strength of these customers, our profitability could decline. we must identify changing consumer preferences and consumption trends and develop and offer food products to our customers that help meet those preferences and trends. consumer preferences evolve over time and our success depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and offer products that appeal to those preferences. we need to continue to respond to these changing consumer preferences and support our customers in their efforts to evolve to meet those preferences. for example, as consumers focus on freshly prepared foods, some restaurants may choose to limit the frying capabilities of their kitchens. as a result, we would need to evolve our product offering to provide alternatives that work in such a preparation environment. in addition, our products contain carbohydrates, sodium, genetically modified ingredients, added sugars, saturated fats, and preservatives, the diet and health effects of which remain the subject of public scrutiny. we must continue to reformulate our products, introduce new products and create product extensions without a loss of the taste, texture, and appearance that consumers demand in value-added potato products. all of these efforts require significant research and development and marketing investments. if our products fail to meet consumer preferences or customer requirements, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on those investments will be less than anticipated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a portion of our business is, and several of our growth strategies are, conducted through joint ventures that do not operate solely for our benefit. we have built our company, in part, through the creation of joint ventures, some of which we do not control. in these relationships, we share ownership and management of a company that operates for the benefit of all owners, rather than our exclusive benefit. through our extensive experience in operating a portion of our business through joint ventures, we understand that joint ventures often require additional resources and procedures for information sharing and decision-making. if our joint venture partners take actions that have negative impacts on the joint venture, or disagree with the strategies we have developed to grow these businesses, we may have limited ability to influence and mitigate those actions or decisions and our ability to achieve our growth strategies may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to complete potential acquisitions that strategically fit our business objectives, integrate acquired businesses, or execute on large capital projects, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. our acquisition activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. those risks include: (i) diversion of 15 table of contents management attention from existing businesses, (ii) difficulties integrating personnel and financial and other systems, (iii) difficulties implementing effective control environment processes, (iv) adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, (v) inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings, (vi) potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and (vii) indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers. if we are unable to complete acquisitions we may identify or successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses or execute on large capital projects, such as new production lines, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. new regulations imposed by the fda or efsa around acrylamide formation in french fried potato products could adversely affect us. the regulation of food products, both within the united states and internationally, continues to be a focus for governmental scrutiny. the presence and/or formation of acrylamide in french fried potato products has become a global regulatory issue as both the fda and the european food safety authority ( efsa ) have issued guidance to the food processing industry to work to reduce conditions that favor the formation of this naturally occurring compound. acrylamide formation is the result of heat processing reactions that give browned foods their desirable flavor. acrylamide formation occurs in many food types in the human diet, including but not limited to breads, toast, cookies, coffee, crackers, potatoes, and olives. the regulatory approach to acrylamide has generally been to encourage the industry to achieve as low as reasonably achievable content levels through process control (temperature) and material testing (low sugar and low asparagine). however, limits for acrylamide content have been established for some food types in the state of california, and point of sale consumer warnings are required if products exceed those limits. in addition, the efsa has recently promulgated regulations establishing specific mitigation measures, sampling and analysis procedures and benchmark levels for acrylamide in certain food products. if the global regulatory approach to acrylamide becomes more stringent and additional legal limits are established, our manufacturing costs could increase. in addition, if consumer perception regarding the safety of our products is negatively impacted due to regulation, sales of our products could decrease. if we fail to comply with the many laws and regulations applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties. our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the u.s. department of agriculture, the fda, the occupational safety and health administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, the health and safety of our employees, and the protection of the environment. our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the environmental protection agency, and comparable state agencies, which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. litigation could expose us to significant costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to commercial liability, product recalls, product liability, product claims, 16 table of contents employment matters, environmental matters, or other aspects of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and although we may believe we have meaningful defenses in these matters, we may incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the costs of responding to or defending litigation may be significant and may divert the attention of management away from our strategic objectives. there may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease customer confidence in our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. as a result, litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our relationships with customers and harm our business. we sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. we may voluntarily recall or withdraw products from the market in certain circumstances, which would cause us to incur associated costs; those costs could be meaningful. we may also be subject to litigation, requests for indemnification from our customers, or liability if the consumption or inadequate preparation of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. a significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, customer reaction, and consumer attitudes. even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. additionally, as a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and other national, state and local government agencies. the food, drug &amp; cosmetic act and the food safety modernization act and their respective regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of food products. some aspects of these laws use a strict liability standard for imposing sanctions on corporate behavior; meaning that no intent is required to be established. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. damage to our reputation as a trusted partner to customers and good corporate citizen could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our customers rely on us and our co-manufacturers to manufacture safe, high quality food products. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may damage the reputation of our customers, and ultimately our reputation as a trusted industry partner. damage to either could reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for our operations and activities; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management; our failure to comply with local laws and regulations; our failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls; or our failure to provide accurate and timely financial information. damage to our reputation or loss of customer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. 17 table of contents our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. we are significantly dependent on information technology, and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, may be vulnerable to damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to any number of causes such as catastrophic events, natural disasters, fires, power outages, systems failures, telecommunications failures, security breaches, computer viruses, hackers, employee error or malfeasance, and other causes. increased cybersecurity threats pose a potential risk to the security and viability of our information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data stored on those systems. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain and protect the related automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. if any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. any interruption of our information technology systems could have operational, reputational, legal, and financial impacts that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or unauthorized disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers or suppliers. misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, potentially significant fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of strategic opportunities, and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. in addition, we may face business interruptions, litigation, and financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or customers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. we do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system objectives will be met. the design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements 18 table of contents due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. if our controls become inadequate, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, our reputation may be adversely affected, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, and the market price of our stock could decline. if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain personnel with professional and technical expertise, such as agricultural and food manufacturing experience, as well as finance, marketing, and other senior management professionals. the market for these employees is competitive, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. if we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting new high-quality employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected. climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, the frequency and severity of extreme weather, and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as potatoes and oils. in addition, water is an important part of potato processing. we may be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, as well as more stringent regulation of water rights. in the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions, improve our energy efficiency, and reduce and reuse water, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. deterioration of general economic conditions could harm our business and results of operations. our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact our business and operations in a variety of ways, including as follows: decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly fast food and casual dining, which may adversely affect our business; volatility in commodity and other input costs could substantially impact our results of operations; volatility in the financial markets or interest rates could substantially impact our pension costs and required pension contributions; 19 table of contents it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and within a time period acceptable to us; and it may become more costly to access funds internationally. impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth. as of may 27, 2018, we had goodwill of $135.1 million and other intangibles of $35.4 million. the net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). the net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, customer relationships, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer, and could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth. we have a limited operating history as an independent public company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows nor do they reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented. our historical financial statements do not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during certain of the periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for future periods. this is primarily a result of the following factors: our historical combined financial results prior to the separation reflect allocations of expenses for services historically provided by conagra, and may not fully reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent public company, including significant changes in our cost structure, management, financing arrangements, and business operations as a result of our spinoff from conagra; our working capital requirements and capital expenditures historically have been satisfied as part of conagra corporate-wide capital access, capital allocation, and cash management programs; our debt structure and cost of debt and other capital is significantly different from that reflected in our historical combined financial statements; and our historical combined financial information may not fully reflect the effects of certain liabilities that were incurred or assumed by us and may not fully reflect the effects of certain assets that were transferred to, and liabilities that were assumed by, conagra. 20 table of contents we are subject to significant restrictions under a tax matters agreement. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a tax matters agreement with conagra. the tax matters agreement generally prohibits us, during the two-year period following the spinoff, from taking certain actions that could cause the spinoff and certain related transactions to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions. these restrictions include: we may not cause or permit certain business combinations or transactions to occur; we may not discontinue the active conduct of our business (within the meaning of section 355(b)(2) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ( code )); we may not sell or otherwise issue our common stock, other than pursuant to issuances that satisfy certain regulatory safe harbors set forth in treasury regulations related to stock issued to employees and retirement plans; we may not redeem or otherwise acquire any of our common stock, other than pursuant to certain open-market repurchases of less than 20% of our common stock (in the aggregate); and we may not amend our certificate of incorporation (or other organizational documents) or take any other action, whether through a stockholder vote or otherwise, affecting the voting rights of our common stock. in addition, during the five-year period following the spinoff, we may not retire, repurchase, or significantly modify our senior notes. further, more generally, we may not take any action that could reasonably be expected to cause the spinoff and certain related transactions to fail to qualify as tax-free transactions under section 368(a)(1)(d) and section 355 of the code. if we take any of the actions above and the actions result in tax-related losses to conagra, we generally will be required to indemnify conagra for such tax-related losses under the tax matters agreement. due to these restrictions and indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement, we may be limited in our ability to pursue strategic transactions, equity or convertible debt financings or other transactions that may otherwise be in our best interests. also, our potential indemnity obligation to conagra might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our stockholders may consider favorable. if the spinoff is taxable to conagra as a result of a breach by us of any covenant or representation made by us in the tax matters agreement, we will generally be required to indemnify conagra; the obligation to make a payment on this indemnification obligation could have a material adverse effect on us. it was intended that the spinoff, together with certain related transactions, would qualify as a tax-free reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a)(1)(d) of the code and a tax-free distribution within the meaning of section 355 of the code. in connection with the spinoff, conagra received an opinion of tax counsel to the effect that those transactions will qualify for their intended tax treatment. however, an opinion of tax counsel does not preclude the internal revenue service ( irs ) or the courts from adopting a contrary position. the tax opinion relied on certain representations, covenants, and assumptions, including those relating to our and conagra past and future conduct; if any of those representations, covenants or assumptions is inaccurate, the tax consequences of the spinoff could differ from the intended tax treatment. if the spinoff and/or certain related transactions fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, for any reason, conagra and/or holders of its common stock would be subject to tax as a result of the spinoff and certain related transactions. if the spinoff and/or the related transactions are not treated as tax-free transactions or are taxable to conagra due to a breach by us (or any of our subsidiaries) of any covenant or representation made by us in the tax matters agreement, we will generally be required to indemnify conagra for all tax-related losses suffered by conagra in connection with the spinoff. in addition, we will not control the resolution of any tax contest relating to taxes suffered by conagra in connection 21 table of contents with the spinoff, and we may not control the resolution of tax contests relating to any other taxes for which we may ultimately have an indemnity obligation under the tax matters agreement. in the event that conagra suffers tax-related losses in connection with the spinoff that must be indemnified by us under the tax matters agreement, the indemnification liability could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities following the spinoff, including potential indemnification liabilities to conagra, and these liabilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in connection with the spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with conagra that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to effect the spinoff, certain conditions to the spinoff, and provisions governing the relationship between our company and conagra with respect to and resulting from the spinoff. among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to the lamb weston business, whether incurred prior to or after the spinoff, and whether known or unknown at the time of the spinoff, as well as those obligations of conagra assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement. if we are required to indemnify conagra under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, or meaningful unknown liabilities surface, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. in addition, under the code and applicable treasury regulations, each corporation that was a member of the conagra consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the completion of the spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire conagra consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. similar rules may apply for state, local, and non-u.s. tax purposes. in addition, the tax matters agreement with conagra allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of any conagra consolidated, combined, unitary or other tax reporting group between us and conagra. however, if conagra is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible under the tax matters agreement, we could be required to pay the entire amount of those taxes, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. in connection with the spinoff, conagra agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that conagra ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, conagra agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that conagra has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from conagra will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of those liabilities, or that conagra will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from conagra any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. if conagra is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. further, conagra insurers may deny coverage to us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spinoff. even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from such insurance providers, we may be required to temporarily bear such loss of coverage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk of this form 10-k for the impact of changes in interest rates on our future cash flows. (d) we enter into operating leases in the normal course of business. we lease some of our warehouses and operating facilities, as well as other property and equipment, under operating leases. some lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the lease or purchase the leased property. our operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options and/or if we entered into additional operating lease agreements. (e) includes interest payments associated with financing obligations of $30.7 million. (f) amount includes open purchase orders and agreements, some of which are not legally binding and/or may be cancellable. such agreements are generally settleable in the ordinary course of business in less than one year. excludes purchase commitments under potato supply agreements due to uncertainty of pricing and quantity. potato supply agreements have maximum contracted pricing with deductions for certain quality attributes, and quantities purchased are determined by the yields produced on contracted acres. total purchases under all our potato supply agreements were $595.8 million, $596.1 million, and $571.0 million in fiscal 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. (g) capital commitments represent commitments for the construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. they were not recorded as liabilities on our combined and consolidated balance sheet as of may 27, 2018, as we had not yet received the related goods nor taken title to the property. 37 table of contents (h) long-term deferred income taxes of $92.1 million are excluded from this table, because the timing of their future cash outflows are uncertain. (i) amounts primarily consist of pension, post-retirement obligations, stock-based payment obligations, and deferred compensation plans. see note 7, employee benefit plans and other post-retirement benefits, and note 10, stock-based compensation, of the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our operations are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices affecting the cost of raw materials and energy, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. in the normal course of business, we periodically enter into derivatives to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. based on our open commodity contract hedge positions as of may 27, 2018, a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market prices applied to the fair value of the instruments would result in a charge to cost of sales of approximately $5.3 million ($4.0 million net of income tax benefit). it should be noted that any change in the fair value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be substantially offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged item. at may 27, 2018, we had $1,687.5 million of fixed-rate and $648.9 million of variable-rate debt outstanding. we have interest rate risk associated with our variable-rate debt. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable-rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of approximately $6.6 million annually. for more information about our market risks, see note 9, debt and financing obligations, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors in this report. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report, which speak only as of the date of this report. we undertake no responsibility for updating these statements, except as required by law. part i item 1. business lamb weston holdings, inc. ( we, us, our, the company, or lamb weston ), along with its joint venture partners, is a leading global producer, distributor, and marketer of value-added frozen potato products and is headquartered in eagle, idaho. we, along with our joint venture partners, are the number one supplier of value-added frozen potato products in north america. we are also a leading supplier of value-added frozen potato products internationally, with a strong and growing presence in high-growth emerging markets. we, along with our joint venture partners, offer a broad product portfolio to a diverse channel and customer base in over 100 countries. french fries represent the majority of our value-added frozen potato product portfolio. we were organized as a delaware corporation in july 2016, as a wholly owned subsidiary of conagra brands, inc. (formerly, conagra foods, inc., conagra ). on november 9, 2016, we separated from conagra and became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by conagra of 100% of our outstanding common stock to conagra stockholders ( separation or spinoff ). as a result of the separation, approximately 146 million shares of our common stock were distributed on november 9, 2016, to conagra stockholders. on november 10, 2016, our common stock began trading under the ticker symbol lw on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). in connection with the separation, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and several other agreements with conagra, including a transition services agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, and trademark license agreement. these agreements governed the relationship between us and conagra following the separation and provided for the allocation of various assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the parties. these agreements also included arrangements for transition services provided by conagra to lamb weston. for a discussion of these agreements, see the section entitled relationship with conagra after the spinoff in our registration statement on form 10, as amended, as filed with the sec on october 17, 2016 ( form 10 ), and note 14, related party transactions, 3 table of contents of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data in this form 10-k. in april 2018, we concluded our transition services agreement with conagra. in connection with the separation, conagra transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities and operations of the lamb weston business to us. combined financial statements for lamb weston for periods prior to the separation were prepared on a stand-alone basis and were derived from conagra consolidated financial statements and accounting records. the combined financial statements for lamb weston contained in this report for periods prior to the separation reflect our financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, and cash flows as our business was operated as part of conagra prior to the separation and include allocations for a portion of conagra shared corporate general and administrative expenses. the combined financial position, results of operations, and cash flows as of dates and for periods prior to the separation may not be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate stand-alone public company during the periods presented, nor are they indicative of what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be in the future. information related to the separation and its effect on our financial statements are discussed throughout this form 10 k. following the separation, our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of lamb weston holdings, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. segments we have four reportable segments: global, foodservice, retail, and other. for segment financial information see note 15, segments, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10 k. global our global segment includes branded and private label frozen potato products sold in north america and international markets. this segment includes the top 100 north american based restaurant chains and international customers comprised of global and regional restaurant chains, foodservice distributors, and retailers. we have included non-u.s. and non-canadian retail and foodservice customers in the global segment due to efficiencies associated with coordinating sales to all customer types within specific markets, as well as due to these customers smaller scale and dependence on local economic conditions. the global segment product portfolio includes frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, and appetizers sold under the lamb weston brand, as well as many customer labels. foodservice our foodservice segment includes branded and private label frozen potato products sold throughout the united states and canada. the foodservice segment primary products are frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, commercial ingredients, and appetizers sold under the lamb weston brand, as well as many customer labels. our products are sold primarily to commercial distributors, restaurant chains outside the top 100 north american based restaurant chains, and non-commercial channels. retail our retail segment includes consumer facing retail branded and private label frozen potato products sold primarily to grocery, mass merchants, club, and specialty retailers. the retail segment primary products are frozen potatoes and sweet potato items sold under our owned or licensed brands, including grown in idaho and alexia , other licensed equities comprised of brand names of major north american restaurant chains, and the retailers own brands. 4 table of contents other the other reporting segment primarily includes our vegetable and dairy businesses. joint venture relationships we conduct business through two unconsolidated joint ventures and include our share of the earnings of these affiliates as equity method investment earnings in our combined and consolidated financial statements based on our economic ownership interest in each of these joint ventures. these two joint ventures produce and market value-added frozen potato products for our customers: we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb-weston/meijer v.o.f. ( lamb-weston/meijer ), a joint venture with meijer frozen foods b.v. lamb-weston/meijer, which is headquartered in the netherlands, manufactures and sells frozen potato products principally in europe. we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb-weston/rdo frozen ( lamb-weston/rdo ), a potato processing venture with rdo frozen co. we provide all sales and marketing services to lamb-weston/rdo and receive a fee for these services based on a percentage of the net sales of the venture. on november 2, 2018, we entered into a membership interest purchase agreement (the bsw agreement ) with ochoa ag unlimited foods, inc. ( ochoa ) to acquire the remaining 50.01% interest in lamb weston bsw, llc, a potato processing joint venture ( lamb weston bsw ). prior to entering into the bsw agreement, we were the primary beneficiary of lamb weston bsw, a variable interest entity, and accordingly, we consolidated the financial statements of lamb weston bsw and deducted 50.01% of the operating results of the noncontrolling interests to arrive at net income attributable to lamb weston holdings, inc. on our combined and consolidated statement of earnings. our combined and consolidated statements of earnings include 100% of lamb weston bsw earnings beginning november 2, 2018. for more information, see note 7, investments in joint ventures, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. sales, distribution and customers we benefit from strong relationships with a diverse set of customers. we sell our products through a combined network of internal sales personnel and independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain restaurants, wholesale, grocery, mass merchants, club, specialty retailers, and foodservice distributors and institutions, including businesses, educational institutions, independent restaurants, regional chain restaurants, and convenience stores. we have long-tenured relationships with leading quick service and fast casual restaurants, global foodservice distributors, large grocery retailers, and mass merchants. our largest customer, mcdonald corporation, accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2019 and 11% of our consolidated net sales in both fiscal 2018 and 2017. no other customer accounted for more than 10% of our fiscal 2019, 2018, or 2017 consolidated net sales. accounts receivable from one customer accounted for 12% of our consolidated accounts receivable at may 27, 2018. no customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated accounts receivable as of may 26, 2019. research and development we leverage our research and development resources for both growth and efficiency initiatives. we seek to drive growth through innovation by creating new products, enhancing the quality of existing products, and participating in joint menu planning exercises with our customers. we also emphasize sustainability in our research and development activities and continue to drive processing innovations aimed at reducing waste and water usage and improving food safety. research 5 table of contents and development expenses were $15.4 million, $13.5 million, and $10.6 million in fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. trademarks, licenses and patents our trademarks are material to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the united states and most other geographic markets where the related food items are sold. depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use and their registrations are maintained. trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. our significant trademarks include: lamb weston, lamb supreme, lamb weston seeing possibilities in potatoes (and design), lamb seasoned, lw private reserve, stealth fries, and sweet things. we also sell certain products, such as grown in idaho and alexia , which we license from third parties. we own numerous patents worldwide. we consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions, including packaging, manufacturing processes, equipment, formulations, and designs. our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. while we consider our patent portfolio to be material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. raw materials and packaging our primary raw materials are potatoes, edible oils, and packaging. we source a significant amount of our raw potatoes under both strategic, long-term grower relationships and shorter-term annual contracts. in the united states, most of the potato crop used in our products is grown in washington, idaho, and oregon. for lamb-weston/meijer, european growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in the netherlands, austria, belgium, germany, france, and the united kingdom. we also have growing regions in china and australia. we believe that the grower networks to which we have access provide a sufficient source of raw potato inputs year-to-year. we source edible oils through strategic relationships with key suppliers, and we source energy and packaging materials through multiple suppliers under a variety of agreement types. the prices paid for these raw materials, as well as other raw materials used in making our products, generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply. from time to time, we have faced increased costs for our significant raw materials, packaging and energy inputs. we seek to mitigate higher input costs through long-term relationships, contract strategies, and hedging activities where an active market for an input exists, as well as through our productivity and pricing initiatives. manufacturing we operate 17 manufacturing facilities for our products. see "item 2. properties" for more information about our manufacturing facilities. in addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we source a portion of our products under co-packing agreements, a common industry practice in which manufacturing is outsourced to other companies. we regularly evaluate our co-packing arrangements to ensure the most cost-effective manufacturing of our products and to utilize company-owned manufacturing facilities most effectively. 6 table of contents international operations at may 26, 2019, we had operations in twelve countries, with manufacturing and processing facilities in four countries. foreign net sales, including sales by domestic segments to customers located outside of the united states, were approximately $742.7 million, $665.8 million, and $663.5 million in fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. our long-lived assets located outside of the united states are not significant. see note 15, segments, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k for additional information on our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. also see item 2. properties, for more information on our manufacturing and other facilities. for a discussion of risks related to our operations outside the united states, see item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. backlog we manufacture primarily to fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. while at any given time there may be some backlog of orders due to the seasonal nature of our manufacturing activities and associated inventory, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant. competition the value-added frozen potato products industry in north america, europe and other international markets is highly competitive. competitors include large north american and european frozen potato product companies that compete globally, as well as local and regional companies. significant competitors include mccain foods limited, j.r. simplot company, cavendish farms corporation, the kraft heinz company, clarebout potatoes nv, aviko b.v., agristo nv, farm frites international b.v. and mydibel s.a. some of our competitors are larger and have substantially more financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. we compete with producers of similar products on the basis of, among other things, customer service, value, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, and the ability to identify and satisfy customer preferences. the markets in which we operate are expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. see also item 1a. risk factors increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits of this form 10-k. seasonality our product contribution margin percentage, inventory levels, net sales and cash flows are affected by seasonality. in general, our product contribution margin percentage tends to be highest in our fiscal third quarter, reflecting the benefit of freshly-harvested potatoes. we typically harvest potatoes in the pacific northwest of the united states in july through october, which is primarily in our fiscal second quarter. freshly-harvested potatoes process more efficiently in our production lines and are not subject to storage or secondary transport costs. we typically hold about 60 days of finished goods inventory on a first-in-first-out basis, so the relatively favorable costs primarily incurred from our fiscal second quarter harvest flow through our income statement in our fiscal third quarter. inventory levels also tend to be higher in our fiscal third quarter, requiring more working capital at that time. in general, net sales and cash flows tend to be higher in our fiscal fourth quarter, reflecting customer and consumer buying patterns. employees as of june 30, 2019, we had approximately 7,600 employees, excluding our joint ventures. approximately 700 of these employees work outside of the united states. approximately 32% of our hourly employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements on terms that we believe are typical for the industry in which we operate. most of the union workers at our facilities are represented under contracts that expire at various times throughout the next several years. approximately 32% expire in fiscal 2020. as these agreements expire, we believe they will be renegotiated on terms satisfactory to us. 7 table of contents information about our executive officers the following are our executive officers as of july 15, 2019: name title age thomas p. werner director, president and chief executive officer 53 robert m. mcnutt senior vice president and chief financial officer 59 micheline c. carter senior vice president and chief human resources officer 53 richard a. martin senior vice president and chief supply chain officer 62 sharon l. miller senior vice president and general manager, global business unit 53 michael j. smith senior vice president and general manager of foodservice, retail, marketing and innovation 42 eryk j. spytek senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary 51 thomas p. werner has served as our president and chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors since november 2016. he previously served as president, commercial foods, for conagra, a food company, since may 2015. in that role, he led the company lamb weston and foodservice businesses, as well as its previously divested spicetec flavors &amp; seasonings and j.m. swank operations. mr. werner also served as interim president of conagra private brands from june 2015 through its divestiture in february 2016. before his appointment as president, commercial foods, mr. werner served as senior vice president of finance for conagra private brands and commercial foods operating segments from june 2013 to april 2015, and senior vice president of finance for lamb weston from may 2011 until june 2013. robert m. mcnutt has served as our senior vice president and chief financial officer since january 2017. prior to joining lamb weston, mr. mcnutt served as chief financial officer of expera specialty solutions, llc, a specialty paper company, from september 2013 to december 2016. mr. mcnutt served as senior vice president and chief financial officer for greif, inc., an industrial packaging company, from january 2011 to july 2013, and as senior vice president and chief financial officer for boise inc., a packaging and paper products manufacturer, from february 2008 to january 2011. micheline c. carter has served as our senior vice president and chief human resources officer since november 2016. ms. carter joined lamb weston in september 2016. from july 2012 until september 2016, she served in a variety of roles with the kraft heinz company, a food and beverage company, including as head of u.s. people and performance and global corporate functions from november 2015 to september 2016, vice president of human resources, global corporate functions from august 2015 until october 2015, vice president of human resources, cheese &amp; dairy from january 2015 until july 2015, and senior director human resources &amp; global exports from july 2012 until january 2015. before joining the kraft heinz company, ms. carter served from february 2011 until july 2012 as senior director human resources, solar energy &amp; solar materials with memc electronic materials, inc. (now known as sunedison, inc.), a supplier of silicon wafers to semiconductor and photovoltaic cell companies. before that, ms. carter served in a variety of roles with j. c. penney company, inc., an apparel and home furnishings retailer, yum! brands, inc., an operator of quick service companies, and texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor design and manufacturing company. richard a. martin has served as our senior vice president and chief supply chain officer since september 2016. mr. martin joined conagra as a manufacturing manager in 1994, and from 1997 to 2003, he served as plant manager of several of our facilities. mr. martin also served as director of operations from 2003 to 2005, vice president, manufacturing from 2005 to 2011, and vice president, global operations from 2011 until 2016. before joining lamb weston, mr. martin spent 15 years at general foods corporation and kraft foods inc., food and beverage companies, in a variety of engineering and manufacturing positions. on april 18, 2019, mr. martin notified us of his decision to retire. mr. martin will remain in his current position until his successor is appointed to ensure a smooth transition. 8 table of contents sharon l. miller has served as our senior vice president and general manager, global business unit since september 2016. before that, she served as conagra vice president and general manager, lamb weston global business unit since 2015. since joining conagra in 1999, ms. miller has held various leadership positions, including vice president of sales for lamb weston's european joint venture, lamb-weston/meijer v.o.f. prior to that, ms. miller was a key sales and business leader within lamb weston in both the united states and canada. she also has held various sales positions with north american food manufacturers and foodservice distributors. michael j. smith has served as our senior vice president and general manager of foodservice, retail, marketing and innovation since april 2018. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, growth and strategy beginning in september 2016. mr. smith also served as vice president and general manager of lamb weston retail from may 2011 to september 2016, vice president and general manager of conagra private brands from march 2014 to february 2016, and vice president of global marketing of lamb weston from july 2012 to march 2014. prior to joining conagra in 2007, mr. smith held various brand management roles at dean foods company, a food and beverage company, and its whitewave division from may 2003 until december 2007. eryk j. spytek has served as our senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since october 2016. from june 2015 until october 2016, mr. spytek was of counsel at winston &amp; strawn llp, a law firm. before returning to winston &amp; strawn llp, he served from december 2009 until april 2015 in a variety of roles with mead johnson nutrition company, a manufacturer of infant formula, including as vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary from april 2013 to april 2015 and as vice president, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from december 2009 to april 2013. before that, mr. spytek served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary at sirva, inc., a moving and relocation services provider, from february 2006 to february 2009. before joining sirva, inc., mr. spytek was a partner at winston &amp; strawn llp. ethics and governance we have adopted a code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior corporate financial officers that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and controller. these codes are available on our website at www.lambweston.com through the investors corporate governance link. we will disclose any waiver we grant to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or controller under our codes, or certain amendments to the codes, on our website at www.lambweston.com. in addition, we adopted corporate governance principles and charters for the audit and finance committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, and compensation committee. all of these materials are available on our website at www.lambweston.com and will be provided free of charge to any stockholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, lamb weston holdings, inc., 599 s. rivershore lane, eagle, idaho 83616. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. food safety and labeling we are subject to extensive regulation, including, among other things, the food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended by the food safety modernization act, the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). this comprehensive and evolving regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, labeling, packaging, and safety of food, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices. in addition, the nutrition label reform act of 2016 prescribes the format and content in which specific nutrition information is required to appear on the labels of food products. we are also subject to regulation by certain other governmental agencies, including the u.s. department of agriculture. 9 table of contents our operations and products are also subject to state and local regulation, including the registration and licensing of plants, enforcement by state health agencies of various state standards, and the registration and inspection of facilities. compliance with federal, state, and local regulation is costly and time-consuming. enforcement actions for violations of federal, state, and local regulations may include seizure and condemnation of products, cease and desist orders, injunctions, or monetary penalties. we believe that our practices are sufficient to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations. environmental, health and safety regulations we are subject to a number of federal, state, and local laws and other regulations relating to the protection of the environment and the safety and health of personnel and the public. these requirements apply to a broad range of our activities, including: the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; the identification, generation, storage, handling, transportation, disposal, recordkeeping, labeling, and reporting of, and emergency response in connection with, hazardous materials; noise emissions from our facilities; and safety and health standards, practices, and procedures that apply to the workplace and the operation of our facilities. in order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend substantial amounts of money and other resources from time to time to (i) construct or acquire new equipment, (ii) acquire or amend permits to authorize facility operations, (iii) modify, upgrade, or replace existing and proposed equipment, and (iv) clean up or decommission our facilities or other locations in accordance with regulatory requirements. our capital and operating budgets include costs and expenses associated with complying with these laws and other requirements. available information we make available, free of charge on our website at www.lambweston.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. we use our website, through the investors link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec unless expressly noted. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the material risks affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be material that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits. our business, value-added frozen potato products, is highly competitive. our principal competitors have substantial financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. a strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts could result in us reducing pricing, increasing promotional activity or losing market share. competitive pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other input cost increases or additional improvements in product quality. our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume. 10 table of contents increased industry capacity may result in reduced sales or profits. in recent years, market demand for value-added frozen potato products has exceeded industry capacity to produce these products. as additional industry capacity comes online, or market demand otherwise decreases, we may face competitive pressures that would restrict our ability to increase or maintain prices. our profits would decrease as a result of a reduction in prices or sales volume. our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations, including foreign currency risks and trade barriers. we conduct a substantial and growing amount of business with customers located outside the united states, including through our joint ventures. during each of fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, net sales outside the united states, primarily in canada, japan, china, korea, mexico, and taiwan, accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales. these amounts do not include any impact of unconsolidated net sales associated with our joint ventures, which are also subject to risks associated with international operations. many factors relating to our international sales and operations, many of which factors are outside of our control, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: foreign exchange rates, foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions, which may unpredictably and adversely impact our combined operating results, asset and liability balances, and cash flow in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency; our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, and we must translate the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars for external reporting purposes; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the united states and foreign governments, including modification or termination of existing trade agreements (e.g., the north american free trade agreement) or treaties, creation of new trade agreements or treaties (e.g. the united states mexico canada agreement), trade regulations, and increased or new tariffs, quotas, import or export licensing requirements, and other trade barriers imposed by governments. in particular, changes in u.s. trade programs and trade relations with other countries, including the imposition of trade protection measures by foreign countries in favor of their local producers of competing products, such as governmental subsidies, tax benefits, and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over lamb weston, may adversely affect our business and results of operations in those countries; negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of wars, terrorist attacks, epidemics or civil unrest; pandemics, such as the flu, which may adversely affect our workforce as well as our local suppliers and customers; earthquakes, tsunamis, droughts, floods or other major disasters that may limit the supply of raw materials that are purchased abroad for use in our international operations or domestically; increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation and warehousing; differing labor standards in the international markets in which we operate; 11 table of contents differing levels of protection of intellectual property across the international markets in which we operate; difficulties and costs associated with complying with u.s. laws and regulations applicable to entities with overseas operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act; the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; varying regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative practices in the international markets in which we operate; difficulties associated with operating under a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; and potentially burdensome taxation. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. disruption of our access to export mechanisms could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. to serve our customers globally, we rely in part on our international joint venture partnerships, but also on exports from the united states. during fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, export sales from the united states accounted for approximately 16%, 17% and 19%, respectively, of our total net sales. circumstances beyond our control, such as a labor dispute at a port, could prevent us from exporting our products in sufficient quantities to meet customer opportunities. we have access to production overseas through our facilities in australia, canada and china and a joint venture in europe, but we may be unsuccessful in mitigating any future disruption to export mechanisms. if this occurs, we may be unable to adequately supply all of our customer opportunities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our substantial debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the separation. as of may 26, 2019, we had $2,318.2 million of long-term debt, including current portion, recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. we have the ability under our existing revolving credit facility to incur additional substantial debt. our level of debt could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. 12 table of contents the agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. the credit agreements governing our term loans and revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: borrow money or guarantee debt; create liens; pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; make specified types of investments and acquisitions; enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; enter into transactions with affiliates; and sell assets or merge with other companies. these restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition, and other corporate opportunities. various risks, uncertainties, and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. a default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. in addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in a downgrade to our credit ratings. a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs. further, under the terms of the tax matters agreement we entered into with conagra at the separation, we may not retire, repurchase, or significantly modify our senior notes during the five-year period following the spinoff. our business relies on a potato crop that has a concentrated growing region. ideal growing conditions for the potatoes necessary for our value-added products (e.g., french fries) are concentrated in a few geographic regions globally. in the united states, most of the potato crop used in value-added products is grown in washington, idaho, and oregon. european growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in the netherlands, austria, belgium, germany, france, and the united kingdom. recent agronomic developments have opened new growing regions, but the capital-intensive nature of our industry production processes has kept production highly concentrated in the historical growing regions. unfavorable crop conditions in any one region, such as the drought in europe during our fiscal year 2019, could lead to significant demand on the other regions for production. our inability to mitigate any such conditions by leveraging our production capabilities in other regions could negatively impact our ability to meet customer opportunities and could decrease our profitability. 13 table of contents our business is affected by potato crop performance. our primary input is potatoes and every year, we must procure potatoes that meet the quality standards for processing into value-added products. environmental and climate conditions, such as soil quality, moisture, and temperature, affect the quality of the potato crop on a year-to-year basis. as a result, we source potatoes from specific regions of the united states and specific countries abroad, including australia, austria, belgium, france, germany, the netherlands, the united kingdom, canada, and china, where we believe the optimal potato growing conditions exist. however, severe weather conditions during the planting and growing season in these regions can significantly affect potato crop performance, such as the drought in europe during our fiscal year 2019. potatoes are also susceptible to pest diseases and insects that can cause crop failure, decreased yields, and negatively affect the physical appearance of the potatoes. we have deep experience in agronomy and actively work to monitor the potato crop. however, if a weather or pest-related event occurs in a particular crop year, and our agronomic programs are insufficient to mitigate the impacts thereof, we may have insufficient potatoes to meet our customer opportunities, and our competitiveness and profitability could decrease. alternatively, overly favorable growing conditions can lead to high per acre yields and over-supply. an increased supply of potatoes could lead to overproduction of finished goods or destruction of unused potatoes at a loss. increases in commodity and other input costs may have a negative impact on profits. a significant portion of our cost of goods comes from commodities such as oil and energy. commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, external conditions such as weather and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. in addition, we also incur expenses in connection with the transportation and delivery of our products. commodity price increases or constraints in the supply or availability of key commodities, including necessary services such as transportation and warehousing, may increase our operating costs. we may not be able to increase our product prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume and decreased profitability. there is currently no active derivatives market for potatoes in the united states. although we have experience in hedging against commodity price increases, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. as a result, the risk management procedures that we use may not always work as we intend. if we do not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category, our profitability could decrease. our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to maintain the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category. we continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that improve the efficiency of our supply chain and general and administrative functions. these initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative functions. however, gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or the elimination of redundant costs could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. changes in our relationships with our growers could adversely affect us. we expend considerable resources to develop and maintain relationships with many potato growers. in some instances, we have entered into long-term agreements with growers; however, a portion of our potato needs are typically sourced on an annual basis. to the extent we are unable to maintain positive relationships with our long-term growers, contracted growers deliver less supply than we expect, or we are unable to secure sufficient potatoes from uncontracted growers in a given year, we may not have sufficient potato supply to satisfy our business opportunities. to obtain sufficient potato supply, we may be required to purchase potatoes at prices substantially higher than expected, or forgo sales to some market segments, which would reduce our profitability. if we forgo sales to such market segments, we may lose customers and may not be able to replace them later. 14 table of contents changes in our relationships with significant customers could adversely affect us. we maintain a diverse customer base across our four reporting segments. customers include global, national and regional quick serve and fast casual restaurants as well as small, independently operated restaurants, multinational, broadline foodservice distributors, as well as regional foodservice distributors, and major food retailers. some of these customers independently represent a meaningful portion of our sales. while we contract annually or biannually with many of our foodservice customers, loss of a significant customer could materially impact the business. in addition, shelf space at food retailers is not guaranteed. our largest customer, mcdonald corporation, accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2019, and 11% of our consolidated net sales in both 2018 and 2017. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the sophistication and buying power of some of our customers could have a negative impact on profits. some of our customers are large and sophisticated, with buying power and negotiating strength. these customers may be more capable of resisting price increases and more likely to demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specialty tailored products. in addition, some of these customers (e.g., larger distributors and supermarkets) have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own brands. we continue to implement initiatives to counteract these pressures, including efficiency programs and investments in innovation and quality. however, if we are unable to counteract the negotiating strength of these customers, our profitability could decline. we must identify changing consumer preferences and consumption trends and develop and offer food products to our customers that help meet those preferences and trends. consumer preferences evolve over time and our success depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and offer products that appeal to those preferences. we need to continue to respond to these changing consumer preferences and support our customers in their efforts to evolve to meet those preferences. for example, as consumers focus on freshly prepared foods, some restaurants may choose to limit the frying capabilities of their kitchens. as a result, we would need to evolve our product offering to provide alternatives that work in such a preparation environment. in addition, our products contain carbohydrates, sodium, genetically modified ingredients, added sugars, saturated fats, and preservatives, the diet and health effects of which remain the subject of public scrutiny. we must continue to reformulate our products, introduce new products and create product extensions without a loss of the taste, texture, and appearance that consumers demand in value-added potato products. all of these efforts require significant research and development and marketing investments. if our products fail to meet consumer preferences or customer requirements, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on those investments will be less than anticipated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a portion of our business is, and several of our growth strategies are, conducted through joint ventures that do not operate solely for our benefit. we have built our company, in part, through the creation of joint ventures, some of which we do not control. in these relationships, we share ownership and management of a company that operates for the benefit of all owners, rather than our exclusive benefit. through our extensive experience in operating a portion of our business through joint ventures, we understand that joint ventures often require additional resources and procedures for information sharing and decision-making. if our joint venture partners take actions that have negative impacts on the joint venture, or disagree with the strategies we have developed to grow these businesses, we may have limited ability to influence and mitigate those actions or decisions and our ability to achieve our growth strategies may be negatively impacted. 15 table of contents if we are unable to complete potential acquisitions that strategically fit our business objectives, integrate acquired businesses, or execute on large capital projects, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. our acquisition activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. those risks include: (i) diversion of management attention from existing businesses, (ii) difficulties integrating personnel and financial and other systems, (iii) difficulties implementing effective control environment processes, (iv) adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, (v) inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings, (vi) potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and (vii) indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses or execute on large capital projects, such as new production lines, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. new regulations imposed by the fda or efsa around acrylamide formation in french fried potato products could adversely affect us. the regulation of food products, both within the united states and internationally, continues to be a focus for governmental scrutiny. the presence and/or formation of acrylamide in french fried potato products has become a global regulatory issue as both the fda and the european food safety authority ( efsa ) have issued guidance to the food processing industry to work to reduce conditions that favor the formation of this naturally occurring compound. acrylamide formation is the result of heat processing reactions that give browned foods their desirable flavor. acrylamide formation occurs in many food types in the human diet, including but not limited to breads, toast, cookies, coffee, crackers, potatoes, and olives. the regulatory approach to acrylamide has generally been to encourage the industry to achieve as low as reasonably achievable content levels through process control (temperature) and material testing (low sugar and low asparagine). however, limits for acrylamide content have been established for some food types in the state of california, and point of sale consumer warnings are required if products exceed those limits. in addition, the efsa has recently promulgated regulations establishing specific mitigation measures, sampling and analysis procedures and benchmark levels for acrylamide in certain food products. if the global regulatory approach to acrylamide becomes more stringent and additional legal limits are established, our manufacturing costs could increase. in addition, if consumer perception regarding the safety of our products is negatively impacted due to regulation, sales of our products could decrease. if we fail to comply with the many laws and regulations applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties. our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the u.s. department of agriculture, the fda, the occupational safety and health administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, the health and safety of our employees, and the protection of the environment. our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the environmental protection agency, and comparable state agencies, which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 table of contents litigation could expose us to significant costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to commercial liability, product recalls, product liability, product claims, employment matters, environmental matters, or other aspects of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and although we may believe we have meaningful defenses in these matters, we may incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the costs of responding to or defending litigation may be significant and may divert the attention of management away from our strategic objectives. there may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease customer confidence in our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. as a result, litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our relationships with customers and harm our business. we sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. we may voluntarily recall or withdraw products from the market in certain circumstances, which would cause us to incur associated costs; those costs could be meaningful. we may also be subject to litigation, requests for indemnification from our customers, or liability if the consumption or inadequate preparation of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. a significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, customer reaction, and consumer attitudes. even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. additionally, as a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and other national, state and local government agencies. the food, drug &amp; cosmetic act and the food safety modernization act and their respective regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of food products. some aspects of these laws use a strict liability standard for imposing sanctions on corporate behavior; meaning that no intent is required to be established. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. damage to our reputation as a trusted partner to customers and good corporate citizen could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our customers rely on us and our co-manufacturers to manufacture safe, high quality food products. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may damage the reputation of our customers, and ultimately our reputation as a trusted industry partner. damage to either could reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for our operations and activities; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management; our failure to comply with local laws and regulations; our failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls; or our failure to provide accurate and timely financial information. damage to our reputation or loss of customer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in 17 table of contents decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. we are significantly dependent on information technology, and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third-party verification, our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, may be vulnerable to damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to any number of causes such as catastrophic events, natural disasters, fires, power outages, systems failures, telecommunications failures, security breaches, computer viruses, hackers, employee error or malfeasance, and other causes. increased cybersecurity threats pose a potential risk to the security and viability of our information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data stored on those systems. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain and protect the related automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. if any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. any interruption of our information technology systems could have operational, reputational, legal, and financial impacts that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or unauthorized disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers or suppliers. misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, potentially significant fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of strategic opportunities, and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. in addition, we may face business interruptions, litigation, and financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or customers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. 18 table of contents we intend to replace our information technology infrastructure, and plan to implement a new enterprise resource planning system. problems with the transition, design, or implementation of this upgrade could interfere with our business and operations and adversely affect our financial condition. we are currently in the process of replacing our information technology infrastructure with a new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system, which we expect to implement during fiscal 2021. we may experience difficulties as we transition to new upgraded systems and processes. these difficulties may include loss of data; difficulty in processing customer orders, shipping products, or providing services and support to our customers; difficulty in billing and tracking our orders; difficulty in completing financial reporting and filing reports with the sec in a timely manner; or challenges in otherwise running our business. we may also experience decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with new systems and processes. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the transition, design, and implementation of a new erp system, particularly any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies that impact our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we do not encounter adverse effects, the transition, design, and implementation of a new erp system, may be much more costly than we anticipated. we identified a material weakness in our internal control related to ineffective information technology general controls which, if not remediated appropriately or timely, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. internal controls related to the operation of technology systems are critical to maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. as disclosed in part ii, item 9a. controls and procedures of this form 10-k, when assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of may 26, 2019, management identified a material weakness in an internal control over the timely termination of temporary access to an information technology system that supports our financial reporting processes that was granted to certain authorized members of our application support team. as a result, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of may 26, 2019. we are implementing remedial measures and, while there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful, we plan to remediate the material weakness prior to the end of fiscal 2020. if we are unable to remediate the material weakness or are otherwise unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected. if we were unable to prepare our future financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap as required, such circumstances would expose us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under the financial and operating covenants contained in our various debt instruments and cause us to seek any necessary consents, waivers or amendments from our lenders. under such circumstances, we would face the risk that we may not be able to obtain any such consents, waivers or amendments, that the terms of any such consents, waivers or amendments might be less favorable than the current terms of our indebtedness or we may not be able to refinance our existing indebtedness to enable us to repay that indebtedness when it becomes due. also, if we were unable to prepare our future financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap as required, it could result in damage to our reputation or lead to regulatory proceedings or private litigation, any or all of which could result in additional business disruptions and the company incurring potentially substantial costs, and our stock price could be adversely impacted. accordingly, if we are unable to remediate the material weakness in the future or are otherwise unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, such events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. we do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not 19 table of contents absolute, assurance that the control system objectives will be met, as noted in our material weakness described above. the design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. if our controls become inadequate, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, our reputation may be adversely affected, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, and the market price of our stock could decline. if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain personnel with professional and technical expertise, such as agricultural and food manufacturing experience, as well as finance, marketing, and other senior management professionals. the market for these employees is competitive, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. if we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting new high-quality employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected. climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, the frequency and severity of extreme weather, and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as potatoes and oils. in addition, water is an important part of potato processing. we may be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, as well as more stringent regulation of water rights. in the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions, improve our energy efficiency, and reduce and reuse water, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. deterioration of general economic conditions could harm our business and results of operations. our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact our business and operations in a variety of ways, including as follows: decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly quick service and other casual dining, which may adversely affect our business; volatility in commodity and other input costs could substantially impact our results of operations; 20 table of contents volatility in the financial markets or interest rates could substantially impact our pension costs and required pension contributions; it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and within a time period acceptable to us; and it may become more costly to access funds internationally. impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth. as of may 26, 2019, we had goodwill of $205.9 million and other intangibles of $37.6 million. the net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). the net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of brands, trademarks, licensing agreements, customer relationships, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer, and could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth. 21 table of contents we have a limited operating history as an independent public company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows nor do they reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented. our historical financial statements do not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during certain of the periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows for future periods. this is primarily a result of the following factors: our historical combined financial results prior to the separation reflect allocations of expenses for services historically provided by conagra, and may not fully reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent public company, including significant changes in our cost structure, management, financing arrangements, and business operations as a result of our spinoff from conagra; our working capital requirements and capital expenditures historically have been satisfied as part of conagra corporate-wide capital access, capital allocation, and cash management programs; our debt structure and cost of debt and other capital is significantly different from that reflected in our historical combined financial statements; and our historical combined financial information may not fully reflect the effects of certain liabilities that were incurred or assumed by us and may not fully reflect the effects of certain assets that were transferred to, and liabilities that were assumed by, conagra. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our operations are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices affecting the cost of raw materials and energy, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. in the normal course of business, we periodically enter into derivatives to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. based on our open commodity contract hedge positions as of may 26, 2019, a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market prices applied to the fair value of the instruments would result in a charge to cost of sales of approximately $9.1 million ($7.0 million net of income tax benefit). it should be noted that any change in the fair value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be substantially offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged item. at may 26, 2019, we had $1,666.0 million of fixed-rate and $607.5 million of variable-rate debt outstanding. we have interest rate risk associated with our variable-rate debt. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable-rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of approximately $6.2 million annually ($4.7 million net of income tax benefit). for more information about our market risks, see note 9, debt and financing obligations, of the notes to combined and consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors in this report. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements included in this report, which speak only as of the date of this report. we undertake no responsibility for updating these statements, except as required by law. part i item 1. business lamb weston holdings, inc. ( we, us, our, the company, or lamb weston ), along with its joint venture partners, is a leading global producer, distributor, and marketer of value-added frozen potato products and is headquartered in eagle, idaho. we, along with our joint venture partners, are the number one supplier of value-added frozen potato products in north america. we, along with our joint venture partners, are also a leading supplier of value-added frozen potato products internationally, with a strong and growing presence in high-growth emerging markets. we, along with our joint venture partners, offer a broad product portfolio to a diverse channel and customer base in over 100 countries. french fries represent the majority of our value-added frozen potato product portfolio. we were organized as a delaware corporation in july 2016, as a wholly owned subsidiary of conagra brands, inc. (formerly, conagra foods, inc., conagra ). on november 9, 2016, we separated from conagra and became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by conagra of 100% of our outstanding common stock to conagra stockholders ( separation ). our common stock trades under the ticker symbol lw on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ). our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of lamb weston holdings, inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. considerations related to the novel coronavirus ( covid-19 ) in december 2019, an outbreak of illness caused by a novel coronavirus called covid-19 was identified in wuhan, china. on january 31, 2020, the united states declared a public health emergency related to the novel coronavirus and on march 11, 2020, the world health organization declared that the spread of covid-19 qualified as a global 3 table of contents pandemic. in an attempt to minimize the transmission of covid-19, significant social and economic restrictions have been imposed in the united states and internationally. these restrictions have had negative implications for portions of our business and the u.s. and global economy. in the preparation of these financial statements and related disclosures we have assessed the impact that covid-19 has had on our estimates, assumptions, and forecasts, and made additional disclosures, as necessary. as the covid-19 situation is unprecedented and ever evolving, future events and effects related to the illness cannot be determined with precision and actual results could significantly differ from estimates or forecasts. see item 1a. risk factors and part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, for further discussion of covid-19 considerations. segments we have four reportable segments: global, foodservice, retail, and other. for segment financial information see note 14, segments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. global our global segment includes frozen potato products sold in north america and international markets to the top 100 north american based restaurant chains and international customers comprised of global and regional restaurant chains, foodservice distributors, and retailers. we have included non-u.s. and non-canadian retail and foodservice customers in the global segment due to efficiencies associated with coordinating sales to all customer types within specific markets, as well as due to these customers' smaller scale and dependence on local economic conditions. the global segment's product portfolio includes frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, and appetizers sold under the lamb weston brand, as well as many customer labels. foodservice our foodservice segment includes frozen potato products sold throughout the united states and canada to commercial distributors, restaurant chains outside the top 100 north american based restaurant chains, and non-commercial channels. the foodservice segment's primary products are frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, commercial ingredients, and appetizers sold under the lamb weston brand, as well as many customer labels. retail our retail segment includes consumer facing frozen potato products sold primarily to grocery, mass merchants, club, and specialty retailers. the retail segment's primary products are frozen potatoes and sweet potato items sold under our owned or licensed brands, including grown in idaho and alexia , other licensed equities comprised of brand names of major north american restaurant chains, and the retailers' own brands. other the other reporting segment primarily includes our vegetable and dairy businesses and mark-to-market gains and losses associated with commodity hedging contracts before the commodities are used in our business segments . joint venture relationships we conduct some of our business through three unconsolidated joint ventures and include our share of the earnings of these affiliates as equity method investment earnings in our consolidated financial statements based on our 4 table of contents economic ownership interest in each of these joint ventures. these joint ventures produce and market value-added frozen potato products for our customers: we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb-weston/meijer v.o.f. ( lamb-weston/meijer ), a joint venture with meijer frozen foods b.v. headquartered in the netherlands, this joint venture manufactures and sells frozen potato products principally in europe. we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb-weston/rdo frozen ( lamb-weston/rdo ), a joint venture with rdo frozen co. this joint venture operates a potato processing facility in minnesota. we also provide all sales and marketing services to lamb-weston/rdo and receive a fee for these services based on a percentage of the net sales of the venture. we hold a fifty percent ownership interest in lamb weston alimentos modernos s.a. ( lwamsa ), a joint venture with sociedad commercial del plata. headquartered in argentina, this joint venture manufactures and sells frozen potato products principally in south america. for more information, see note 6, investments in joint ventures, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. on november 2, 2018, we entered into a membership interest purchase agreement (the bsw agreement ) with ochoa ag unlimited foods, inc. ( ochoa ) to acquire the remaining 50.01% interest in lamb weston bsw, llc, a potato processing joint venture ( lamb weston bsw ). prior to entering into the bsw agreement, we were the primary beneficiary of lamb weston bsw, a variable interest entity, and accordingly, we consolidated the financial statements of lamb weston bsw and deducted 50.01% of the operating results of the noncontrolling interests to arrive at net income attributable to lamb weston holdings, inc. on our consolidated statements of earnings. our consolidated statements of earnings include 100% of lamb weston bsw's earnings beginning november 2, 2018. for more information, see note 6, investments in joint ventures, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k. sales, distribution and customers we benefit from strong relationships with a diverse set of customers. we sell our products through a combined network of internal sales personnel and independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain restaurants, wholesale, grocery, mass merchants, club retailers, specialty retailers, and foodservice distributors and institutions, including businesses, educational institutions, independent restaurants, regional chain restaurants, and convenience stores. we have long-tenured relationships with leading quick service and fast casual restaurants, global foodservice distributors, large grocery retailers, and mass merchants. our largest customer, mcdonald's corporation, accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales in both fiscal 2020 and 2019, and 11% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018. no other customer accounted for more than 10% of our fiscal 2020, 2019, or 2018 consolidated net sales. no customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated accounts receivable as of may 31, 2020 or may 26, 2019. research and development we leverage our research and development resources for both growth and efficiency initiatives. we seek to drive growth through innovation by creating new products, enhancing the quality of existing products, and participating in joint menu planning exercises with our customers. we also emphasize sustainability in our research and development activities and continue to drive processing innovations aimed at reducing waste and water usage and improving food safety. research and development expenses were $15.4 million in both 2020 and 2019, and $13.5 million in fiscal 2018. 5 table of contents trademarks, licenses and patents our trademarks are material to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the united states and most other geographic markets where the related food items are sold. depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use and their registrations are maintained. trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. our significant trademarks include: lamb weston, lamb's supreme, lamb weston seeing possibilities in potatoes (and design), lamb's seasoned, lw private reserve, stealth fries, and sweet things. we also sell certain products, such as grown in idaho and alexia , which we license from third parties. we own numerous patents worldwide. we consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions, including packaging, manufacturing processes, equipment, formulations, and designs. our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. the actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. while we consider our patent portfolio to be material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business. raw materials and packaging our primary raw materials are potatoes, edible oils, and packaging. we source a significant amount of our raw potatoes under both strategic, long-term grower relationships and shorter-term annual contracts. in the united states, most of the potato crop used in our products is grown in washington, idaho, and oregon. for lamb-weston/meijer, european growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in the netherlands, austria, belgium, germany, france, and the united kingdom. we also have growing regions in china, australia, and argentina. we believe that the grower networks to which we have access provide a sufficient source of raw potato inputs year-to-year. we source edible oils through strategic relationships with key suppliers, and we source energy and packaging materials through multiple suppliers under a variety of agreement types. the prices paid for these raw materials, as well as other raw materials used in making our products, generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply. from time to time, we have faced increased costs for our significant raw materials, packaging and energy inputs. we seek to mitigate higher input costs through long-term relationships, contract strategies, and hedging activities where an active market for an input exists, as well as through our pricing and productivity initiatives. manufacturing we operate 18 manufacturing facilities for our products. see &quot;item 2. properties&quot; for more information about our manufacturing facilities. our joint ventures operate a total of nine manufacturing facilities. in addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we source a portion of our products under co-packing agreements, a common industry practice in which manufacturing is outsourced to other companies. we regularly evaluate our co-packing arrangements to ensure the most cost-effective manufacturing of our products and to utilize company-owned manufacturing facilities most effectively. international operations at may 31, 2020, we had operations in eighteen countries, with manufacturing and processing facilities in four countries. foreign net sales, including sales by domestic segments to customers located outside of the united states, were approximately $752.9 million, $742.7 million, and $665.8 million in fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. our long- 6 table of contents lived assets located outside of the united states are not significant. see note 14, segments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8. financial statements and supplementary data of this form 10-k for additional information on our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. also see item 2. properties, for more information on our manufacturing and other facilities. for a discussion of risks related to our operations outside the united states, see item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. backlog we manufacture primarily to fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. while at any given time there may be some backlog of orders due to the seasonal nature of our manufacturing activities and associated inventory, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant. competition the value-added frozen potato products industry in north america, europe and other international markets is highly competitive. competitors include large north american and european frozen potato product companies that compete globally, as well as local and regional companies. significant competitors include agristo nv, aviko b.v., cavendish farms corporation, clarebout potatoes nv, farm frites international b.v., j.r. simplot company, the kraft heinz company, mccain foods limited, and mydibel s.a. some of our competitors are larger and have substantially more financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. we compete with producers of similar products on the basis of, among other things, customer service, value, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, and the ability to identify and satisfy customer preferences. the markets in which we operate are expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. see also item 1a. risk factors increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits of this form 10-k. seasonality our product contribution margin percentage, inventory levels, net sales and cash flows are affected by seasonality. in general, our product contribution margin percentage tends to be highest in our fiscal third quarter, reflecting the benefit of freshly-harvested potatoes. we typically harvest potatoes in the pacific northwest of the united states in july through october, which is primarily in our fiscal second quarter. freshly-harvested potatoes process more efficiently in our production lines and are not subject to storage or secondary transport costs. we typically hold about 60 days of finished goods inventory on a first-in-first-out basis, so the relatively favorable costs primarily incurred from our fiscal second quarter harvest flow through our income statement in our fiscal third quarter. inventory levels also tend to be higher in our fiscal third quarter, requiring more working capital at that time. in general, net sales and cash flows tend to be higher in our fiscal fourth quarter, reflecting customer and consumer buying patterns. due to severe impacts of the government mandated shutdowns in response to the covid-19 pandemic, seasonal variations in the demand for our products in fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 differed from prior years. the fiscal fourth quarter operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year. employees as of june 30, 2020, we had approximately 7,700 employees. approximately 800 of these employees work outside of the united states. approximately 23% of our employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements on terms that we believe are typical for the industry in which we operate. most of the union workers at our facilities are represented under contracts that expire at various times throughout the next several years. collective bargaining agreements that represent approximately 19% of our hourly employees, who are parties to collective bargaining agreements, expire in fiscal 2021. as these agreements expire, we believe they will be renegotiated on terms satisfactory to us. 7 table of contents information about our executive officers the following are our executive officers as of july 20, 2020: name title age thomas p. werner director, president and chief executive officer 54 robert m. mcnutt senior vice president and chief financial officer 60 micheline c. carter senior vice president and chief human resources officer 54 sharon l. miller senior vice president and general manager, global business unit 54 gerardo scheufler senior vice president and chief supply chain officer 52 michael j. smith senior vice president and general manager of foodservice, retail, marketing and innovation 43 eryk j. spytek senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary 52 thomas p. werner has served as our president and chief executive officer and a member of our board of directors since november 2016. prior to that, he served as president, commercial foods, for conagra, a food company, since may 2015. in that role, he led the company's lamb weston and foodservice businesses, as well as its previously divested spicetec flavors &amp; seasonings and j.m. swank operations. mr. werner also served as interim president of conagra's private brands from june 2015 through its divestiture in february 2016. before his appointment as president, commercial foods, mr. werner served as senior vice president of finance for conagra's private brands and commercial foods operating segments from june 2013 to april 2015, and senior vice president of finance for lamb weston from may 2011 until june 2013. robert m. mcnutt has served as our senior vice president and chief financial officer since january 2017. prior to joining lamb weston, mr. mcnutt served as chief financial officer of expera specialty solutions, llc, a specialty paper company, from september 2013 to december 2016. mr. mcnutt served as senior vice president and chief financial officer for greif, inc., an industrial packaging company, from january 2011 to july 2013, and as senior vice president and chief financial officer for boise inc., a packaging and paper products manufacturer, from february 2008 to january 2011. micheline c. carter has served as our senior vice president and chief human resources officer since november 2016. ms. carter joined lamb weston in september 2016. from july 2012 until september 2016, she served in a variety of roles with the kraft heinz company, a food and beverage company, including as head of u.s. people and performance and global corporate functions from november 2015 to september 2016, vice president of human resources, global corporate functions from august 2015 until october 2015, vice president of human resources, cheese &amp; dairy from january 2015 until july 2015, and senior director human resources &amp; global exports from july 2012 until january 2015. before joining the kraft heinz company, ms. carter served from february 2011 until july 2012 as senior director human resources, solar energy &amp; solar materials with memc electronic materials, inc. (now known as sunedison, inc.), a supplier of silicon wafers to semiconductor and photovoltaic cell companies. before that, ms. carter served in a variety of roles with j. c. penney company, inc., an apparel and home furnishings retailer, yum! brands, inc., an operator of quick service restaurants, and texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor design and manufacturing company. sharon l. miller has served as our senior vice president and general manager, global business unit since september 2016. before that, she served as conagra's vice president and general manager, lamb weston global business unit since 2015. since joining conagra in 1999, ms. miller has held various leadership positions, including vice president of sales for lamb weston's european joint venture, lamb-weston/meijer. prior to that, ms. miller was a key sales and business leader within lamb weston in both the united states and canada. she also has held various sales positions with north american food manufacturers and foodservice distributors. 8 table of contents gerardo scheufler has served as our senior vice president and chief supply chain officer since august 2019. prior to joining lamb weston, mr. scheufler served as the vice president of global operations at mondelez international, inc., a food and beverage company, from july 2014 until august 2019. during his tenure at mondelez international, mr. scheufler oversaw a major global restructuring program to optimize the global supply chain footprint, including the manufacturing, customer service, quality, logistics, health, safety and environment, and innovation functions. prior to that, mr. scheufler spent more than 20 years at the procter &amp; gamble company, a consumer goods corporation, in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility after starting his career in plant operations in 1990. michael j. smith has served as our senior vice president and general manager of foodservice, retail, marketing and innovation since april 2018. prior to that, he served as senior vice president, growth and strategy beginning in september 2016. mr. smith also served as vice president and general manager of lamb weston retail from may 2011 to september 2016, vice president and general manager of conagra's private brands from march 2014 to february 2016, and vice president of global marketing of lamb weston from july 2012 to march 2014. prior to joining conagra in 2007, mr. smith held various brand management roles at dean foods company, a food and beverage company, and its whitewave division from may 2003 until december 2007. eryk j. spytek has served as our senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary since october 2016. from june 2015 until october 2016, mr. spytek was of counsel at winston &amp; strawn llp, a law firm. before returning to winston &amp; strawn llp, he served from december 2009 until april 2015 in a variety of roles with mead johnson nutrition company, a manufacturer of infant formula, including as vice president, deputy general counsel and assistant secretary from april 2013 to april 2015 and as vice president, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from december 2009 to april 2013. before that, mr. spytek served as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary at sirva, inc., a moving and relocation services provider, from february 2006 to february 2009. before joining sirva, inc., mr. spytek was a partner at winston &amp; strawn llp. ethics and governance we have adopted a code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior corporate financial officers that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and controller. these codes are available on our website at www.lambweston.com through the investors corporate governance link. we will disclose any waiver we grant to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or controller under our codes, or certain amendments to the codes, on our website at www.lambweston.com. in addition, we adopted corporate governance principles and charters for the audit and finance committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, and compensation committee. all of these materials are available on our website at www.lambweston.com and will be provided free of charge to any stockholder requesting a copy by writing to: corporate secretary, lamb weston holdings, inc., 599 s. rivershore lane, eagle, idaho 83616. the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec. food safety and labeling we are subject to extensive regulation, including, among other things, the food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended by the food safety modernization act, the public health security and bioterrorism preparedness and response act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ). this comprehensive and evolving regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, labeling, packaging, and safety of food, including compliance with current good manufacturing practices. in addition, the nutrition label reform act of 2016 and regulations promulgated thereunder by the fda, prescribes the format and content in which specific nutrition information is required to appear on the labels of food products. we are also subject to regulation by certain other governmental agencies, including the u.s. department of agriculture. our operations and products are also subject to state and local regulation, including the registration and licensing of plants, enforcement by state health agencies of various state standards, and the registration and inspection of facilities. 9 table of contents compliance with federal, state, and local regulation is costly and time-consuming. enforcement actions for violations of federal, state, and local regulations may include seizure and condemnation of products, cease and desist orders, injunctions, voluntary recalls or market withdrawals of products, and monetary penalties. we believe that our practices are sufficient to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations. environmental, health and safety regulations we are subject to a number of federal, state, and local laws and other regulations relating to the protection of the environment and the safety and health of personnel and the public. these requirements apply to a broad range of our activities, including: the discharge of pollutants into the air, land and water; the identification, generation, storage, handling, transportation, disposal, recordkeeping, labeling, spill prevention and reporting of, and emergency response in connection with, hazardous materials; noise emissions from our facilities; and safety and health standards, practices, and procedures that apply to the workplace and the operation of our facilities. in order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend substantial amounts of money and other resources from time to time to (i) construct or acquire new equipment, (ii) acquire or amend permits to authorize facility operations, (iii) modify, upgrade, or replace existing and proposed equipment, and (iv) clean up or decommission our facilities or other locations in accordance with regulatory requirements. our capital and operating budgets include costs and expenses associated with complying with these laws and other requirements. available information we make available, free of charge on our website at www.lambweston.com, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. the sec also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec; the address of that site is https://www.sec.gov. we use our website, through the investors link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. additionally, in june 2020, we released our first environmental, social, and governance report that describes our sustainability programs. the report can be found on our website at https://esg.lambweston.com. the information on our website, including our environmental, social, and governance report, is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the sec unless expressly noted. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered in evaluating us. while we believe we have identified and discussed below the material risks affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be material that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. government actions to control the spread of covid-19 have adversely impacted, and are likely to continue to adversely impact, our business, financial condition and results of operations. the efforts by national, state and local governments worldwide to control the spread of covid-19 have resulted in widespread measures aimed at containing the disease such as quarantines, travel bans, shutdowns, and shelter-in-place or stay-at-home orders, which have significantly restricted the movement of people and goods. these restrictions and measures, and our efforts to act in the best interests of our employees, customers, suppliers, vendors, and joint venture and other business partners, have affected and are continuing to affect our business and operations by, among other things, causing the closure of many sit down restaurants; reducing demand at quick service restaurants; causing us to modify a number of our normal business practices including the ongoing evaluation of our manufacturing employees' covid-19 symptom status; evaluating the need for facility closures or temporary shutdowns to protect employee health; disrupting production timing; disrupting our supply chain; disrupting the transport of goods from our supply chain to us and from us 10 table of contents to our customers; requiring modifications to our business processes; requiring the modification of business continuity plans; requiring the implementation of social distancing measures that require changes to existing manufacturing practices; disrupting business travel; disrupting our ability to staff our on-site manufacturing and research and development facilities; delaying capital expansion projects and other capital expenditures; and necessitating teleworking by a large proportion of our workforce. these impacts have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, changes in the mix of products sold, decreases in revenue, and increases in costs resulting in decreased profitability and cash flows from operations, which have caused, and are expected to cause, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations that may be material. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that the covid-19 pandemic will have on our customers, suppliers, vendors and joint venture and other business partners, and each of their financial conditions. any material adverse effect on these parties could adversely impact us. in this regard, the potential duration and impacts of the covid-19 pandemic on the global economy and on our business, financial condition and results of operations are difficult to predict and cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty, but the pandemic has resulted in significant disruption of global financial markets, increases in levels of unemployment and economic uncertainty, which has adversely impacted our business and may continue to do so. these developments may lead to significant negative impacts on customer spending, demand for our products, the ability of our customers to pay, our financial condition and the financial condition of our suppliers, and may also negatively impact our access to external sources of financing to fund our operations or make capital expenditures. the impact of covid-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed in this form 10-k, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. this situation is changing rapidly and additional impacts may arise that we currently are not aware of. our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or interruptions or other constraints in the availability of key commodities and other necessary services. a significant portion of our cost of goods comes from commodities such as raw potatoes, edible oil, and energy. these commodities are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by many factors, including changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions (including any potential effects of climate change), fire, natural disasters (such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding), disease or pests, agricultural uncertainty, health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks, such as the current covid-19 pandemic, governmental incentives and controls (including import/export restrictions, such as new or increased tariffs, sanctions, quotas or trade barriers), limited or sole sources of supply, political uncertainties, acts of terrorism, governmental instability or currency exchange rates. in addition, we also incur expenses in connection with the transportation and delivery of our products. commodity price increases, or a sustained interruption or other constraints in the supply or availability of key commodities, including necessary services such as transportation and warehousing, may increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to increase our product prices and achieve cost savings that fully offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume and decreased profitability. there is currently no active derivatives market for potatoes in the united states. although we have experience in hedging against commodity price increases, these practices and experience reduce, but do not eliminate, the risk of negative profit impacts from commodity price increases. as a result, the risk management procedures that we use may not always work as we intend. in addition, our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to maintain the appropriate cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive value-added frozen potato product category. we continue to implement profit-enhancing initiatives that improve the efficiency of our supply chain and general and administrative functions. these initiatives are focused on cost-saving opportunities in procurement, manufacturing, logistics, and customer service, as well as general and administrative functions. however, gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. in addition, we may have significant supply chain disruptions due to a number of factors outside of our control, including public health crises such as the current covid-19 pandemic. these factors may lead to our inability to access or deliver products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner, which could lead to increased warehouse and other storage costs. our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or the elimination of redundant costs, or the occurrence of a significant supply chain disruption or the inability to access or 11 table of contents deliver products, could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position or otherwise harm our business. increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits. our business, value-added frozen potato products, is highly competitive. our principal competitors have substantial financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. a strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts could result in us reducing pricing, increasing promotional activity or losing market share. competitive pressures also may restrict our ability to increase prices, including in response to commodity and other input cost increases or additional improvements in product quality. our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume. increased industry capacity may result in reduced sales or profits. in recent years, market demand for value-added frozen potato products has exceeded industry capacity to produce these products. as additional industry capacity comes online, or market demand otherwise decreases, including as a result of the current covid-19 pandemic, we may face competitive pressures that would restrict our ability to increase or maintain prices. our profits would decrease as a result of a reduction in prices or sales volume. our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations, including foreign currency risks and trade barriers. we conduct a substantial and growing amount of business with customers located outside the united states, including through our joint ventures. during each of fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, net sales outside the united states, primarily in australia, canada, china, japan, korea, mexico, and taiwan, accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales. these amounts do not include any impact of unconsolidated net sales associated with our joint ventures, which are also subject to risks associated with international operations. many factors relating to our international sales and operations, many of which factors are outside of our control, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including: pandemics and other public health crises, such as the flu and in particular the current covid-19 pandemic, which may decrease revenues, disrupt our supply chain or otherwise increase our storage, production or distribution costs and adversely affect our workforce, local suppliers, customers and consumers of our products; foreign exchange rates, foreign currency exchange and transfer restrictions, which may unpredictably and adversely impact our combined operating results, asset and liability balances, and cash flow in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency; our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, and we must translate the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into u.s. dollars for external reporting purposes; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the united states and foreign governments, including modification or termination of existing trade agreements (e.g., the north american free trade agreement) or treaties, creation of new trade agreements or treaties (e.g. the united states - mexico - canada agreement), trade regulations, and increased or new tariffs, quotas, import or export licensing requirements, and other trade barriers imposed by governments. in particular, changes in u.s. trade programs and trade relations with other countries, including the imposition of trade protection measures by foreign countries in favor of their local producers of competing products, such as governmental subsidies, tax benefits, and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over lamb weston, may adversely affect our business and results of operations in those countries; negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments, including the threat of wars, terrorist attacks, epidemics or civil unrest; earthquakes, tsunamis, droughts, floods or other major disasters that may limit the supply of raw materials that are purchased abroad for use in our international operations or domestically; 12 table of contents increased costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation and warehousing; differing employment practices and labor standards in the international markets in which we operate; differing levels of protection of intellectual property across the international markets in which we operate; difficulties and costs associated with complying with u.s. laws and regulations applicable to entities with overseas operations, including the foreign corrupt practices act; the threat that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation; varying regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative practices in the international markets in which we operate; difficulties associated with operating under a wide variety of complex foreign laws, treaties and regulations; potentially burdensome taxation; and uncertainty regarding the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) as certain of our interest rates on debt obligations and investments are based on libor, and a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable interest rates, primarily based on libor. libor is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, which may cause libor to disappear entirely after 2021 or to perform differently than in the past. while we expect that reasonable alternatives to libor will be implemented prior to the 2021 target date, we cannot predict the consequences and timing of these developments, and they could include an increase in our interest expense and/or a reduction in our interest income. any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. disruption of our access to export mechanisms could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. to serve our customers globally, we rely in part on our international joint venture partnerships, but also on exports from the united states. during fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, export sales from the united states accounted for approximately 16%, 16%, and 17%, respectively, of our total net sales. circumstances beyond our control, such as a labor dispute at a port or workforce disruption due to the current covid-19 pandemic, could prevent us from exporting our products in sufficient quantities to meet customer opportunities. we have access to production outside of the united states through our facilities in australia, canada and china and joint ventures in argentina and europe, but we may be unsuccessful in mitigating any future disruption to export mechanisms. if this occurs, we may be unable to adequately supply all of our customer opportunities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our substantial debt may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. we have incurred substantial indebtedness. as of may 31, 2020, we had $3,041.4 million of long-term debt, including current portion, recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. our level of debt could have important consequences. for example, it could: make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. 13 table of contents the agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business. the credit agreements governing our term loans and revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: borrow money or guarantee debt; create liens; pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock; make specified types of investments and acquisitions; enter into agreements that limit the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other payments to us; enter into transactions with affiliates; and sell assets or merge with other companies. these restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. a default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. also, the limitations imposed by these financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. in addition, the restrictive covenants in our credit agreements require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with these ratios and tests. our ability to continue to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments, including as a result of cross default provisions and, in the case of our revolving credit facility, permit the lenders thereunder to cease making loans to us. upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. such action by the lenders could cause cross-defaults under our senior notes indentures. additionally, any failure to meet required payments on our debt, or failure to comply with any covenants in the instruments governing our debt, could result in a downgrade to our credit ratings. a downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs. further, under the terms of the tax matters agreement we entered into with conagra at the spinoff, we may not retire, repurchase, or significantly modify our senior notes due 2024 and 2026 during the five-year period following the spinoff. our business relies on a potato crop that has a concentrated growing region. ideal growing conditions for the potatoes necessary for our value-added products (e.g., french fries) are concentrated in a few geographic regions globally. in the united states, most of the potato crop used in value-added products is grown in washington, idaho, and oregon. european growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in austria, belgium, germany, france, the netherlands, and the united kingdom. recent agronomic developments have opened new growing regions, but the capital-intensive nature of our industry's production processes has kept production highly concentrated in the historical growing regions. unfavorable crop conditions in any one region, such as the drought in europe during our fiscal year 2019, could lead to significant demand on the other regions for production. our inability to mitigate any such conditions by leveraging our production capabilities in other regions could negatively impact our ability to meet customer opportunities and could decrease our profitability. 14 table of contents our business is affected by potato crop performance. our primary input is potatoes and every year, we must procure potatoes that meet the quality standards for processing into value-added products. environmental and climate conditions, such as soil quality, moisture, and temperature, affect the quality of the potato crop on a year-to-year basis. as a result, we source potatoes from specific regions of the united states and specific countries abroad, including australia, austria, belgium, canada, china, france, germany, the netherlands, and the united kingdom, where we believe the optimal potato growing conditions exist. however, severe weather conditions during the planting and growing season in these regions can significantly affect potato crop performance, such as the drought in europe during our fiscal year 2019. potatoes are also susceptible to pest diseases and insects that can cause crop failure, decreased yields, and negatively affect the physical appearance of the potatoes. we have deep experience in agronomy and actively work to monitor the potato crop. however, if a weather or pest-related event occurs in a particular crop year, and our agronomic programs are insufficient to mitigate the impacts thereof, we may have insufficient potatoes to meet our customer opportunities, and our competitiveness and profitability could decrease. alternatively, overly favorable growing conditions can lead to high per acre yields and over-supply. an increased supply of potatoes could lead to overproduction of finished goods and associated increased storage costs or destruction of unused potatoes at a loss. changes in our relationships with our growers could adversely affect us. we expend considerable resources to develop and maintain relationships with many potato growers. in some instances, we have entered into long-term agreements with growers; however, a portion of our potato needs are typically sourced on an annual basis. to the extent we are unable to maintain positive relationships with our long-term growers, contracted growers deliver less supply than we expect, or we are unable to secure sufficient potatoes from uncontracted growers in a given year, we may not have sufficient potato supply to satisfy our business opportunities. to obtain sufficient potato supply, we may be required to purchase potatoes at prices substantially higher than expected, or forgo sales to some market segments, which would reduce our profitability. if we forgo sales to such market segments, we may lose customers and may not be able to replace them later. changes in our relationships with significant customers could adversely affect us. we maintain a diverse customer base across our four reporting segments. customers include global, national and regional quick serve and fast casual restaurants as well as small, independently operated restaurants, multinational, broadline foodservice distributors, as well as regional foodservice distributors, and major food retailers. some of these customers independently represent a meaningful portion of our sales. in addition, we depend on foodservice distributors to help us create end-customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. the foodservice distributors also sell products that compete with our products, and we sometimes need to provide financial and other incentives to focus them on the sale of our products. while we contract annually or biannually with many of our foodservice customers, the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially impact the business. our largest customer, mcdonald's corporation, accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales in both fiscal 2020 and 2019, and 11% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018. there can be no assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities or on the same terms as in the past. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, the financial condition of our significant customers, including restaurants, distributors and retailers, are affected by events that are largely beyond our control. deterioration in the financial condition of significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the sophistication and buying power of some of our customers could have a negative impact on profits. some of our customers are large and sophisticated, with buying power and negotiating strength. these customers may be more capable of resisting price increases and more likely to demand lower pricing, increased promotional 15 table of contents programs, or specialty tailored products. in addition, some of these customers (e.g., larger distributors and supermarkets) have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own brands. shelf space at food retailers is not guaranteed, and large retail customers may choose to stock their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. we continue to implement initiatives to counteract these pressures, including efficiency programs and investments in innovation and quality. however, if we are unable to counteract the negotiating strength of these customers, our profitability could decline. we must identify changing consumer preferences and consumption trends and develop and offer food products to our customers that help meet those preferences and trends. consumer preferences evolve over time and our success depends on our ability to identify the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and offer products that appeal to those preferences. we need to continue to respond to these changing consumer preferences and support our customers in their efforts to evolve to meet those preferences. for example, as consumers focus on freshly prepared foods, some restaurants may choose to limit the frying capabilities of their kitchens. as a result, we must evolve our product offering to provide alternatives that work in such a preparation environment. in addition, our products contain carbohydrates, sodium, genetically modified ingredients, added sugars, saturated fats, and preservatives, the diet and health effects of which remain the subject of public scrutiny. we must continue to reformulate our products, introduce new products and create product extensions without a loss of the taste, texture, and appearance that consumers demand in value-added potato products. all of these efforts require significant research and development and marketing investments. if our products fail to meet consumer preferences or customer requirements, or we fail to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, then the return on those investments will be less than anticipated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a portion of our business is, and several of our growth strategies are, conducted through joint ventures that do not operate solely for our benefit. we have built our company, in part, through the creation of joint ventures, some of which we do not control. in these relationships, we share ownership and management of a company that operates for the benefit of all owners, rather than our exclusive benefit. through our extensive experience in operating a portion of our business through joint ventures, we understand that joint ventures often require additional resources and procedures for information sharing and decision-making. if our joint venture partners take actions that have negative impacts on the joint venture, or disagree with the strategies we have developed to grow these businesses, we may have limited ability to influence and mitigate those actions or decisions and our ability to achieve our growth strategies may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to complete potential acquisitions that strategically fit our business objectives, integrate acquired businesses, or execute on large capital projects, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. from time to time, we evaluate acquisition candidates that may strategically fit our business objectives. our acquisition activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. those risks include: (i) diversion of management attention from existing businesses, (ii) difficulties integrating personnel and financial and other systems, (iii) difficulties implementing effective control environment processes, (iv) adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, (v) inaccurate estimates of fair value made in the accounting for acquisitions and amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings, (vi) potential loss of customers or key employees of acquired businesses, and (vii) indemnities and potential disputes with the sellers. if we are unable to complete acquisitions or successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses or execute on large capital projects, such as new production lines, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. new regulations imposed by the fda or efsa around acrylamide formation in potato products could adversely affect us. the regulation of food products, both within the united states and internationally, continues to be a focus for governmental scrutiny. the presence and/or formation of acrylamide in potato products cooked at high temperatures has become a global regulatory issue as both the fda and the european food safety authority ( efsa'') have issued guidance to the food processing industry to work to reduce conditions that favor the formation of this naturally occurring 16 table of contents compound. acrylamide formation is the result of heat processing reactions that give browned foods'' their desirable flavor. acrylamide formation occurs in many food types in the human diet, including but not limited to breads, toast, cookies, coffee, crackers, potatoes, and olives. the regulatory approach to acrylamide has generally been to encourage the industry to achieve as low as reasonably achievable content levels through process control (temperature) and material testing (low sugar and low asparagine). however, limits for acrylamide content have been established for some food types in the state of california, and point of sale consumer warnings are required if products exceed those limits. in addition, the efsa has recently promulgated regulations establishing specific mitigation measures, sampling and analysis procedures and benchmark levels for acrylamide in certain food products. if the global regulatory approach to acrylamide becomes more stringent and additional legal limits are established, our manufacturing costs could increase. in addition, if consumer perception regarding the safety of our products is negatively impacted due to regulation, sales of our products could decrease. if we fail to comply with the many laws and regulations applicable to our business, we may face lawsuits or incur significant fines and penalties. our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the u.s. department of agriculture, the fda, the occupational safety and health administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products, and the health and safety of our employees. our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. our operations are also subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations administered by the environmental protection agency, and comparable state agencies, which pertain to the protection of the environment, including, but not limited to, discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes. failure to comply with these regulations can have serious consequences, including civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. changes in applicable laws or regulations or evolving interpretations thereof, including increased government regulations to limit carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions as a result of concern over climate change, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures, and other financial obligations for us, which could affect our profitability or impede the production or distribution of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. litigation could expose us to significant costs and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to commercial liability, product recalls, product liability, product claims, employment matters, environmental matters, or other aspects of our business. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and although we may believe we have meaningful defenses in these matters, we may incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the costs of responding to or defending litigation may be significant and may divert the attention of management away from our strategic objectives. there may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease customer confidence in our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. as a result, litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our relationships with customers and harm our business. we sell food products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, other adulteration of food products, mislabeling, and misbranding. we may voluntarily recall or withdraw products from the market in certain circumstances, which would cause us to incur associated costs; those costs could be meaningful. we may also be subject to litigation, requests for indemnification from our customers, or liability if the consumption or inadequate preparation of any of our products causes injury, illness, or death. a significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact our sales and profitability for a period of time 17 table of contents depending on the costs of the recall, the destruction of product inventory, product availability, competitive reaction, customer reaction, and consumer attitudes. even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. additionally, as a manufacturer and marketer of food products, we are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and other national, state and local government agencies. the food, drug &amp; cosmetic act and the food safety modernization act and their respective regulations govern, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, packaging and safety of food products. some aspects of these laws use a strict liability standard for imposing sanctions on corporate behavior, meaning that no intent is required to be established. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. damage to our reputation as a trusted partner to customers and good corporate citizen could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our customers rely on us and our co-manufacturers to manufacture safe, high quality food products. product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety, and integrity, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may damage the reputation of our customers, and ultimately our reputation as a trusted industry partner. damage to either could reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social, and environmental standards for our operations and activities; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use, and waste management; our failure to comply with local laws and regulations; our failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls; or our failure to provide accurate and timely financial information. damage to our reputation or loss of customer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plans. a significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. we are significantly dependent on information technology, and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating and independent third-party verification, our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, may be vulnerable to damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to any number of causes such as catastrophic events, natural disasters, infectious disease outbreaks and other public health crises, fires, power outages, systems failures, telecommunications failures, security breaches, computer viruses, hackers, employee error or malfeasance, and other causes. increased cybersecurity threats pose a potential risk to the security and viability of our 18 table of contents information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data stored on those systems. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain and protect the related automated and manual control processes, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions, or damage resulting from security breaches. if any of our significant information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. any interruption of our information technology systems could have operational, reputational, legal, and financial impacts that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or unauthorized disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers or suppliers. misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, potentially significant fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of strategic opportunities, and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. in addition, we may face business interruptions, litigation, and financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or customers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. we intend to replace our information technology infrastructure, and plan to implement a new enterprise resource planning system. problems with the transition, design, or implementation of this upgrade could interfere with our business and operations and adversely affect our financial condition. we are currently in the process of replacing our information technology infrastructure with a new enterprise resource planning ( erp'') system, which will be implemented in phases beginning in fiscal 2021. we may experience difficulties as we transition to new upgraded systems and processes. these difficulties may include loss of data; difficulty in processing customer orders, shipping products, or providing services and support to our customers; difficulty in billing and tracking our orders; difficulty in completing financial reporting and filing reports with the sec in a timely manner; or challenges in otherwise running our business. we may also experience decreases in productivity as our personnel implement and become familiar with new systems and processes. any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies in the transition, design, and implementation of a new erp system, particularly any disruptions, delays, or deficiencies that impact our operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we do not encounter adverse effects, the transition, design, and implementation of a new erp system, may be much more costly than we anticipated. there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. we do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. the design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. if our controls become inadequate, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, our reputation may be adversely affected, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected, and the market price of our stock could decline. 19 table of contents if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business could be materially and adversely affected. our success depends on our ability to attract and retain personnel with professional and technical expertise, such as agricultural and food manufacturing experience, as well as finance, marketing, and other senior management professionals. the market for these employees is competitive, and we could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. if we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting new high-quality employees, our business could be materially and adversely affected. climate change, or legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations. there is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, the frequency and severity of extreme weather, and natural disasters. in the event that climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as potatoes and edible oils. in addition, water is an important part of potato processing. we may be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. the increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases, as well as more stringent regulation of water rights. in the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions, improve our energy efficiency, and reduce and reuse water, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. as a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. deterioration of general economic conditions could harm our business and results of operations. our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including interest rates, access to capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. volatility in financial markets and deterioration of national and global economic conditions, including as a result of the current covid-19 pandemic, could impact our business and operations in a variety of ways, including as follows: decreased demand in the restaurant business, particularly quick service and other casual dining, which may adversely affect our business; volatility in commodity and other input costs could substantially impact our results of operations; volatility in the financial markets or interest rates could substantially impact our pension costs and required pension contributions; it may become more costly or difficult to obtain debt or equity financing to fund operations or investment opportunities, or to refinance our debt in the future, in each case on terms and within a time period acceptable to us; and it may become more costly to access funds internationally. impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other intangibles could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth. as of may 31, 2020, we had goodwill of $303.8 million and other intangibles of $38.3 million. the net carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable). the net carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of brands, trademarks, licensing agreements, customer relationships, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date (or subsequent impairment date, if applicable), net of accumulated amortization. goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by 20 table of contents management at least annually for impairment. amortized intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets may be caused by factors outside our control, such as increasing competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.), or the bankruptcy of a significant customer, and could result in the incurrence of impairment charges and negatively impact our net worth. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our operations are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices affecting the cost of raw materials and energy, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. in the normal course of business, we periodically enter into derivatives to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. the covid-19 pandemic has resulted in significant volatility and uncertainty in the markets in which we operate. at the time of this filing, we are unable to predict or determine the impacts that the covid-19 pandemic may have on our exposure to market risk from commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, among other factors. for additional discussion, refer to forward-looking statements, liquidity and capital resources within part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations as well as item 1a. risk factors of this form 10-k. based on our open commodity contract hedge positions as of may 31, 2020, a hypothetical 10 percent decline in market prices applied to the fair value of the instruments would result in a charge to cost of sales of approximately $9.6 million ($7.4 million net of income tax benefit). it should be noted that any change in the fair value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be substantially offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged item. at may 31, 2020, we had $2,166.0 million of fixed-rate and $1,389.0 million of variable-rate debt outstanding. we have interest rate risk associated with our variable-rate debt. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable-rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of approximately $14.1 million annually ($10.8 million net of income tax benefit). for more information about our market risks, see note 9, debt and financing obligations, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii,