risk factors our business is subject to many risks. set forth below are the most significant risks that we face. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs and marketing efforts. our ability to create a personalized guest experience through the collection and use of guest data is increasingly important to our ability to differentiate from other retailers. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, the functionality and reliability of our digital channels, our in-stock levels and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margins and expenses. we sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands. these brands are an important part of our business because they differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than equivalent national brand products and represent a significant portion of our overall sales. if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. the continuing migration and evolution of retailing to online and mobile channels has increased our challenges in differentiating ourselves from other retailers. in particular, consumers are able to quickly and conveniently comparison shop with digital tools, which can lead to decisions based solely on price. we work with our vendors to offer unique and distinctive merchandise, and encourage our guests to shop with confidence with our price match policy. failure to effectively execute in these efforts, actions by our competitors in response to these efforts or failures of our vendors to manage their own channels and content could hurt our ability to differentiate ourselves from other retailers and, as a result, have an adverse effect on sales, gross margins and expenses. our continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target and our team members choose target as a place of employment is the reputation we have built over many years for serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, the communities in which we operate, and shareholders. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions. while reputations may take decades to build, any negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations or litigation. those types of incidents could have an adverse impact on perceptions and lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including consumer boycotts, lost sales, loss of new store development opportunities, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties. for example, we experienced weaker than expected u.s. segment sales following the announcement of the data breach and are unable to determine whether there will be a long-term impact to our relationship with our guests and whether we will need to engage in significant promotional or other activities to regain their trust . if we are unable to successfully develop and maintain a relevant and reliable multichannel experience for our guests, our sales, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with guests across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others). our guests are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in our stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary about all aspects of our business. we currently provide full and mobile versions of our website (target.com), applications for mobile phones and tablets and interact with our guests through social media. multichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing guest expectations and new developments and technology investments by our competitors. if we are unable to attract and retain team members or contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support our multichannel efforts, implement improvements to our guest facing technology in a timely manner, or provide a convenient and consistent experience for our guests regardless of the ultimate sales channel, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, if target.com and our other guest facing technology systems do not appeal to our guests or reliably function as designed, we may experience a loss of guest 5 confidence, lost sales or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, which, if significant, could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margins and profitability could suffer. a substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend right decisions and effectively manage our inventory in a broad range of merchandise categories, including apparel, home d cor, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, and personalize our offerings to our guests may result in lost sales, spoilage and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations by hurting our sales, gross margins and profitability. our earnings are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. most of our stores and all of our digital sales are in the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. these same considerations impact the success of our credit card program. even though we no longer own a consumer credit card receivables portfolio, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with td. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in us receiving lower profit sharing payments. we rely on a large, global and changing workforce of target team members, contractors and temporary staffing. if we do not effectively manage our workforce and the concentration of work in certain global locations, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. with approximately 366,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain the appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors and temporary staffing. many team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, collective bargaining efforts, health care and other benefit costs and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers and an appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors and temporary staffing, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. as of march 14, 2014, none of our team members were working under collective bargaining agreements. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. we have a concentration of support functions located in india where there has been greater political, financial, environmental and health instability than the united states. an extended disruption of our operations in india could adversely affect certain operations supporting stability and maintenance of our digital channels and information technology development. if our capital investments in technology, new stores and remodeling existing stores do not achieve appropriate returns, our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. our business is becoming increasingly reliant on technology investments and the returns on these investments are less predictable than building new stores and remodeling existing stores. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to support our multichannel efforts, implement improvements to our guest facing technology and transform our information processes and computer systems to more efficiently run our business and remain competitive and relevant to our guests. these technology initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best 6 investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, our growth also depends, in part, on our ability to build new stores and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. many of our expected new store sites are located in fully developed markets, which are generally more time-consuming and expensive undertakings than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. interruptions in our supply chain or increased commodity prices and supply chain costs could adversely affect our gross margins, expenses and results of operations. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events that could slow port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, including vendor costs, labor, fuel, tariffs, currency exchange rates and supply chain transparency initiatives, could have an adverse effect on gross margins, expenses and results of operations. failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. the data breach we experienced in 2013 has resulted in government inquiries and private litigation, and if our efforts to protect the security of information about our guests and team members are unsuccessful, future issues may result in additional costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our sales and reputation could suffer. the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of information about our guests and team members. we have a program in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. in addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors and temporary staff. until the fourth quarter of 2013, all incidents we experienced were insignificant. the data breach we experienced was significant and went undetected for several weeks. we experienced weaker than expected u.s. segment sales immediately following the announcement of the data breach, and we are currently facing more than 80 civil lawsuits filed on behalf of guests, payment card issuing banks and shareholders. in addition, state and federal agencies, including state attorneys general, the federal trade commission and the sec, are investigating events related to the data breach, including how it occurred, its consequences and our responses. those claims and investigations may have an adverse effect on how we operate our business and our results of operations. if we experience additional significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to additional government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could further lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, which could cause them to discontinue using our redcards or pharmacy services, or stop shopping with us altogether. 7 our failure to comply with federal, state, local and international laws, or changes in these laws could increase our costs, reduce our margins and lower our sales. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations in the united states, canada and other countries in which we operate. significant workforce-related legislative changes could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible workforce-related legislative changes include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment affecting medicare reimbursements, privacy and information security, product safety, supply chain transparency, or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. for example, we are currently facing government inquiries related to the data breach that may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties. in addition, any legislative or regulatory changes adopted in reaction to the recent retail-industry data breaches could increase or accelerate our compliance costs. also, our pharmacy and clinic operations are governed by various regulations, and a significant change in, or our noncompliance with, these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our compliance costs and results of operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, including wage and hour laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and local anti-bribery laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs, reducing our margins and lowering our sales. weather conditions where our stores are located may impact consumer shopping patterns, which alone or together with natural disasters, particularly in areas where our sales are concentrated, could adversely affect our results of operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states by total sales are california, texas and florida, areas where natural disasters are more prevalent. natural disasters in those states or in other areas where our sales are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores or distribution centers, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our net income. a number of factors influence our effective income tax rate, including changes in tax law, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. in addition, our operations outside of the united states may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and capital investments. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to fund portions of our capital investments and the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital. our continued access to these markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance and maintaining strong debt ratings. if rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely impact our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds and other terms for new debt issuances. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to meet our capital requirements or fund our working capital needs, and lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. a significant disruption in our computer systems and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain guest confidence. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process guest transactions, manage guest data, communicate with our vendors and other third parties, service redcard accounts and summarize and analyze results, and on continued and unimpeded access to the internet to use our computer systems. our systems are subject to 8 damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss and impediments to our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, and encounter lost guest confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the data breach we experienced negatively impacted our ability to timely handle customer inquiries, and we experienced weaker than expected u.s. segment sales following the announcement of the data breach. we continually make significant technology investments that will help maintain and update our existing computer systems. implementing significant system changes increases the risk of computer system disruption. additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce our operational efficiency, and could impact the guest experience and guest confidence. if we do not positively differentiate the target experience and appeal to our new canadian guests, our financial results could be adversely affected. in fiscal 2013 we opened 124 target stores in canada, which was our first retail store expansion outside of the united states. our initial sales and operating results in canada have not met our initial expectations. improving our sales in canada is contingent on our ability to deploy new marketing programs that positively differentiate us from other retailers in canada, and achieve market acceptance by canadian guests. in addition, our sales and operating results in canada are dependent on our ability to manage our inventory to offer the expected assortment of merchandise to our canadian guests while avoiding overstock situations, and general macroeconomic conditions in canada. if we do not effectively execute our marketing program and manage our inventory in canada, our financial results could be adversely affected. a disruption in relationships with third parties who provide us services in connection with certain aspects of our business could adversely affect our operations. we rely on third parties to support a variety of business functions, including our canadian supply chain, portions of our technology development and systems, our multichannel platforms and distribution network operations, credit and debit card transaction processing, and extensions of credit for our 5% redcard rewards loyalty program. if we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support those strategies or integrate their products and services with our business, or if those third parties fail to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, our reputation, sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, we could face increased costs associated with finding replacement providers or hiring new team members to provide these services in-house. we experienced a significant data security breach in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 and are not yet able to determine the full extent of its impact and the impact of government investigations and private litigation on our results of operations, which could be material. the data breach we experienced involved the theft of certain payment card and guest information through unauthorized access to our network. our investigation of the matter is ongoing, and it is possible that we will identify additional information that was accessed or stolen, which could materially worsen the losses and reputational damage we have experienced. for example, when the intrusion was initially identified, we thought the information stolen was limited to payment card information, but later discovered that other guest information was also stolen. we are currently subject to a number of governmental investigations and private litigation and other claims relating to the data breach, and in the future we may be subject to additional investigations and claims of this sort. these investigations and claims could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or profitability. our financial liability arising from such investigations and claims will depend on many factors, one of which is whether, at the time of the data breach, the portion of our network that handles payment card data was in compliance with applicable payment card industry standards. while that portion of our network was determined to be compliant by an independent third-party assessor in the fall of 2013, we expect the forensic investigator working on behalf of the payment card networks to claim that we were not in compliance. another factor is whether, and if so to what extent, any fraud losses or other expenses experienced by cardholders, card issuers and/or the payment card networks on or with respect to the payment card accounts affected by the data breach can be properly attributed to the data breach and whether, and if so to what extent, it would in any event be our legal responsibility. in addition, the governmental agencies investigating the data breach may seek to impose on us fines and/or other monetary relief and/or injunctive relief that could materially increase our data security costs, adversely impact how we operate our network and collect and use guest information, and put us at a competitive disadvantage with other retailers. 9 finally, we believe that the greatest risk to our business arising out of the data breach is the negative impact on our reputation and loss of confidence of our guests, as well as the possibility of decreased participation in our redcards rewards loyalty program which our internal analysis has indicated drives meaningful incremental sales. we experienced weaker than expected u.s. segment sales after the announcement of the data breach, but are unable to determine whether there will be a long-term impact to our relationship with our guests or whether we will need to engage in significant promotional or other activities to regain their trust, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or profitability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at february 1, 2014 , our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating-rate. our interest rate exposure is primarily due to the extent by which our floating rate debt obligations differ from our floating rate short term investments. at february 1, 2014 , our floating rate debt exceeded our floating rate short term investments by approximately $1 billion. as a result, based on our balance sheet position at february 1, 2014, the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point increase in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our short-term investments, would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $1 million. in general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short-term investments over time, but that may vary in different interest rate environments. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 18 and 19 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically, in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at february 1, 2014 , the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $8 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. a 0.5 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $30 million. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. to protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 50 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. 31 as more fully described in note 13 and note 25 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 32risk factors our business is subject to many risks. set forth below are the most significant risks that we face. for the convenience of the reader, the risks are listed in the categories where those risks primarily apply, but they may also apply to other categories. competitive and reputational risks our continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target, our team members choose target as a place of employment and our vendors choose to do business with us is the reputation we have built over many years for serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, shareholders, and the communities in which we operate. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow, and leverage the value of target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions. while reputations may take decades to build, any negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations, or litigation. those types of incidents could have an adverse impact on perceptions and lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including consumer boycotts, lost sales, loss of new store and technology development opportunities, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties. for example, we experienced weaker than expected sales immediately following the announcement of the data breach that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2013, and while we now believe the incident will not have a long-term impact to our relationship with our guests, it is an example of an incident that affected our reputation and negatively impacted our sales for a period of time. in addition, the long-term reputational impact of discontinuing our canadian operations on our guests, team members, vendors and other constituencies is unknown, and we may need to take actions that could increase our expenses and adversely affect the results of our operations. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs and marketing efforts. our ability to create a personalized guest experience through the collection and use of guest data is important to our ability to differentiate from other retailers. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, the functionality and reliability of our digital channels, our in-stock levels and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margins, and expenses. we sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands. these brands are an important part of our business because they differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than equivalent national brand products and represent a significant portion of our overall sales. if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. the continuing migration and evolution of retailing to online and mobile channels has increased our challenges in differentiating ourselves from other retailers. in particular, consumers are able to quickly and conveniently comparison shop and determine real-time product availability using digital tools, which can lead to decisions based solely on price, the functionality of the digital tools or a combination of those and other factors. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our guests regardless of the ultimate sales channel; providing and maintaining digital tools for our guests and team members that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use; working with our vendors to offer unique and distinctive merchandise; and encouraging our guests to shop with confidence with our price-match policy. failure to effectively execute in these efforts, actions by our competitors in response to these efforts, or failures of our vendors to manage their own channels, content and technology systems could hurt our ability to differentiate ourselves from other retailers and, as a result, have an adverse effect on sales, gross margins, and expenses. 5 if we are unable to successfully develop and maintain a relevant and reliable omnichannel experience for our guests, our sales, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with guests across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others). our guests are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in our stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary about all aspects of our business. we currently provide full and mobile versions of our website (target.com), offer applications for mobile phones and tablets, and interact with our guests through social media. omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must anticipate and meet changing guest expectations and counteract new developments and technology investments by our competitors. our omnichannel retailing efforts include implementing new technology, software and processes to be able to fulfill guest orders from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers, which is extremely complex and may not meet guest expectations for timely and accurate deliveries. if we are unable to attract and retain team members or contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support our omnichannel efforts, implement improvements to our guest facing technology in a timely manner, allow real-time and accurate visibility to product availability when guests are ready to purchase, quickly and efficiently fulfill our guests orders using the fulfillment and payment methods they demand, or provide a convenient and consistent experience for our guests regardless of the ultimate sales channel, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, if target.com and our other guest facing technology systems do not appeal to our guests, reliably function as designed, or maintain the privacy of guest data, or if we are unable consistently meet our brand promise to our guests, we may experience a loss of guest confidence, lost sales or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margins and profitability could suffer. a substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend right decisions and effectively manage our inventory in a broad range of merchandise categories, including apparel, home d cor, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. for example, we are investing more of our overall resources, including capital, marketing, and product development to focus on signature categories, including baby, kids, wellness, and style, and tailor our food assortment to support guest wellness goals and become more specialized with unique and differentiated items. failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, emphasize the correct categories, and personalize our offerings to our guests may result in lost sales, spoilage, and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations by hurting our sales, gross margins, and profitability. technology investments and infrastructure risks if our capital investments in technology, new stores and remodeling existing stores do not achieve appropriate returns, our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. our business is becoming increasingly reliant on technology investments, and the returns on these investments are less predictable than building new stores and remodeling existing stores. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to support our omnichannel efforts, implement improvements to our guest facing technology, and evolve our inventory management system, information processes, and computer systems to more efficiently run our business and remain competitive and relevant to our guests. these technology initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. in addition, our growth also depends, in part, on our ability to build new stores and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. many of our expected new store sites are smaller and non-standard footprints located in fully developed markets, which are generally more time-consuming and expensive undertakings than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 6 a significant disruption in our computer systems and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain guest confidence. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process guest transactions, manage and maintain the privacy of guest data, communicate with our vendors and other third parties, service redcard accounts, and summarize and analyze results, and on continued and unimpeded access to the internet to use our computer systems. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, and encounter lost guest confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the data breach we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2013 negatively impacted our ability to handle customer inquiries, and we experienced weaker than expected sales immediately following the announcement of the data breach. similarly, we experienced a temporary network disruption not involving a data breach in june 2014 that prevented many of our point-of-sale registers from working in a limited geographic region. this disruption caused checkout delays and generated negative publicity, and we engaged in promotional activities to retain our customers during the delay. we continually make significant technology investments that will help maintain and update our existing computer systems. implementing significant system changes increases the risk of computer system disruption. the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce our operational efficiency, and could impact the guest experience and guest confidence. data security and privacy risks if our efforts to protect the security of information about our guests, team members and vendors are unsuccessful, we may face additional costly government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our sales and reputation could suffer. an important component of our business involves the receipt and storage of information about our guests, team members, and vendors. we have a program in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, and temporary staff. until the data breach in the fourth quarter of 2013, all incidents we experienced were insignificant. the data breach we experienced was significant and went undetected for several weeks. both we and our vendors have experienced data security incidents other than the data breach; however, to date these other incidents have not been material to our consolidated financial statements. if we or our vendors experience additional significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to additional government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could further lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, which could cause them to discontinue using our redcards or pharmacy services, or stop shopping with us altogether. we have recorded significant expenses related to the data breach. our losses could exceed the amounts we have recorded by material amounts, and these matters could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. the data breach we experienced was significant, went undetected for several weeks, and involved the theft of certain payment card and guest information through unauthorized access to our network. we experienced weaker than expected sales immediately following the announcement of the data breach, and we are currently facing litigation seeking damages or other related relief allegedly arising out of the data breach. in addition, state and federal agencies, including state attorneys general, the federal trade commission and the sec, are investigating events related to the data breach, including how it occurred, its consequences and our responses. the governmental agencies investigating the data breach may seek to impose on us fines and/or other monetary relief and/or injunctive relief that could materially increase our data security costs, adversely impact how we operate our network and collect and use guest information, and put us at a competitive disadvantage with other retailers. furthermore, three of the four major 7 payment card networks, which between them represent a substantial majority of the payment cards potentially impacted by the data breach, have made written claims against us, either directly or through our acquiring banks, and we believe that it is probable that the fourth major payment card network will also make a claim against us. collectively, the claims, investigations and other possible consequences of the data breach may have an adverse effect on how we operate our business and our results of operations. in the future we may be subject to additional investigations and claims of this sort. we have recorded data breach-related expenses that include our estimated probable losses for these matters, and it is reasonably possible that we may incur a material loss in excess of the amount accrued. supply chain and third party risks interruptions in our supply chain or fulfillment network, increased commodity, supply chain and fulfillment costs, or changes in our relationships with our vendors could adversely affect our gross margins, expenses and results of operations. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise to our distribution centers, stores and our guests in a timely and efficient manner. as we continue to add fulfillment capabilities or pursue strategies with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. if our fulfillment network does not operate properly or if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks, delivery delays or increased delivery costs that could lead to lost sales and decreased guest confidence, and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events that could slow or disrupt port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. for example, the labor disputes impacting the ports on the west coast of the u.s. that began in 2014 have caused us to make alternative arrangements to continue the flow of inventory, and if these disputes recur or worsen, it may have a material impact on our costs or inventory supply. changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, including vendor costs, labor, fuel, tariffs, currency exchange rates and supply chain transparency initiatives, could have an adverse effect on gross margins, expenses and results of operations. changes in our relationships with our vendors also have the potential to increase our expenses and adversely affect results of operations. we are unable to determine whether our decision to discontinue our canadian operations will negatively impact our relationships with vendors that also supply our u.s. operations in a way that might cause less favorable terms, increased costs, result in less timely and efficient deliveries, or impact their ability to sell to target. a disruption in relationships with third parties who provide us services in connection with certain aspects of our business could adversely affect our operations. we rely on third parties to support a variety of business functions, including portions of our technology development and systems, our digital platforms and distribution network operations, credit and debit card transaction processing, extensions of credit for our 5% redcard rewards loyalty program, and aspects of our clinic and pharmacy operations. if we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support those strategies or integrate their products and services with our business, or if we fail to properly manage those third parties or if they fail to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, our reputation, sales, and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, we could face increased costs associated with finding replacement providers or hiring new team members to provide these services in-house. legal, regulatory, global and other external risks our earnings are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. virtually all of our sales are in the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. 8 these same considerations impact the success of our credit card program. even though we no longer own a consumer credit card receivables portfolio, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with td. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in us receiving lower profit sharing payments. weather conditions where our stores are located may impact consumer shopping patterns, which alone or together with natural disasters, particularly in areas where our sales are concentrated, could adversely affect our results of operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states by total sales are california, texas and florida, areas where natural disasters are more prevalent. natural disasters in those states or in other areas where our sales are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores, distribution centers or key vendors, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers, stores, and directly to guests, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. we rely on a large, global and changing workforce of target team members, contractors and temporary staffing. if we do not effectively manage our workforce and the concentration of work in certain global locations, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. with approximately 347,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain the appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors, and temporary staffing and effectively organize and manage those resources as our business changes. many team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our changing labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, collective bargaining efforts, health care and other benefit costs, changing demographics, and our reputation and relevance within the labor market. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers and an appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors and temporary staffing, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. as of march 13, 2015, none of our team members were working under collective bargaining agreements. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. we maintain a headquarters location in india where there has been greater political, financial, environmental and health instability than the united states. an extended disruption of our operations in india could adversely affect certain operations supporting stability and maintenance of our digital channels and information technology development. failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. our failure to comply with federal, state, local, and international laws, or changes in these laws could increase our costs, reduce our margins, and lower our sales. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations in the united states and other countries in which we operate. significant workforce-related legislative changes could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible workforce-related legislative changes include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment 9 affecting medicare reimbursements, privacy and information security, product safety, payment methods and related fees, responsible sourcing, supply chain transparency, or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. for example, we are currently facing government inquiries related to the data breach that may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties. in addition, any legislative or regulatory changes adopted in reaction to the recent retail-industry data breaches could increase or accelerate our compliance costs. also, our pharmacy and clinic operations are governed by various regulations, and a significant change in, or our noncompliance with, these regulations could have a material adverse effect on our compliance costs and results of operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, including wage and hour laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and local anti-bribery laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs, reducing our margins, and lowering our sales. financial risks changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our net income. a number of factors influence our effective income tax rate, including changes in tax law, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. in addition, our operations outside of the united states may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid, and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and capital investments. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to fund portions of our capital investments and the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital. our continued access to these markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and maintaining strong debt ratings. if rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely impact our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to meet our capital requirements or fund our working capital needs, and lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. if we are unable to make a fair and orderly exit of our canadian operations, or if our existing reserves are not adequate to cover our ultimate liability, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. on january 15, 2015, we announced our decision to discontinue our canadian operations and authorized a filing by our direct wholly owned subsidiary, target canada co., and certain other subsidiaries under the companies' creditors arrangement act (canada). during the fourth quarter ended january 31, 2015, we reported pretax losses from our discontinued canadian operations, including pretax exit losses, a non-cash pretax impairment charge, and other operating losses. the losses from discontinued operations include probable losses relating to certain claims that may be asserted against us as a result of our guaranty of certain obligations of target canada co. or other claims that may be made against us. our reserves relating to these matters may not be adequate to cover our ultimate liability, and amounts beyond our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we may suffer other losses for which we have not established reserves, although we believe that possibility is not probable. if we are unable to effectively and efficiently execute the wind-down of our canadian operations, we may incur additional costs and cash outflows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at january 31, 2015 , our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating-rate. our interest rate exposure is primarily due to differences between our floating rate debt obligations compared to our floating rate short term investments. at january 31, 2015 , our floating rate short-term investments exceeded our floating rate debt by approximately $270 million. based on our balance sheet position at january 31, 2015, the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on our floating rate short-term investments, net of our debt obligations, would decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $0.3 million. in general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short-term investments over time, but that may vary in different interest rate environments. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 18 and 19 of the notes to financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically, in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at january 31, 2015 , the annualized 27 effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $9 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. a 0.5 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $29 million. to protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 50 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in note 13 and note 25 of the financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 28risk factors our business is subject to many risks. set forth below are the material risks that we face. for the convenience of the reader, the risks are listed in the categories where those risks primarily apply, but they may also apply to other categories. competitive and reputational risks our continued success is dependent on positive perceptions of target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target, our team members choose target as a place of employment and our vendors choose to do business with us is the reputation we have built over many years for serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, shareholders, and the communities in which we operate. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow, and leverage the value of target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions. while reputations may take decades to build, any negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations, or litigation. those types of incidents could have an adverse impact on perceptions and lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including consumer boycotts, lost sales, loss of new store and technology development opportunities, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties. for example, we experienced weaker than expected sales immediately following the announcement of a data breach that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2013. more recently, the sale of our pharmacy and clinic assets to cvs means that cvs will be operating clinics and pharmacies within our stores, and our guests' perceptions of and experiences with cvs, whether within our stores, at independent cvs locations, or otherwise may impact our reputation. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past, we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, store environment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs and marketing efforts. our ability to create a personalized guest experience through the collection and use of accurate and relevant guest data is important to our ability to differentiate from other retailers. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, the functionality and reliability of our digital channels, our in-stock levels, the effectiveness of our promotions, the attractiveness of our third party offerings, such as the clinics and pharmacies owned and operated by cvs, and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors or the failure of our strategies to drive traffic across all sales channels could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margins, and expenses. we sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands. these brands are an important part of our business because they differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than equivalent national brand products and represent a significant portion of our overall sales. if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, or if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights in our owned and exclusive brands, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. the continuing migration and evolution of retailing to online and mobile channels has increased our challenges in differentiating ourselves from other retailers. in particular, consumers are able to quickly and conveniently comparison shop and determine real-time product availability using digital tools, which can lead to decisions based solely on price, the functionality of the digital tools or a combination of those and other factors. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our guests regardless of the ultimate sales channel; providing and maintaining digital tools for our guests and team members that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use; working with our vendors to offer unique and distinctive merchandise, offering certain services our guests desire in our stores through third parties, such as cvs, offering a compelling guest loyalty program, and encouraging our guests to shop with confidence with our price-match policy. failures to effectively execute in these efforts, actions by our competitors in response to these efforts, or failures of our vendors to manage their own channels, content and technology systems could hurt our ability to differentiate ourselves from other retailers and, as a result, have an adverse effect on sales, gross margins, and expenses. 5 if we are unable to successfully develop and maintain a relevant and reliable experience for our guests, regardless of where our guest demand is ultimately fulfilled, our sales, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with guests across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others). our guests are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in our stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary about all aspects of our business. we currently provide full and mobile versions of our website (target.com), offer applications for mobile phones and tablets, and interact with our guests through social media. retailing is rapidly evolving so that the majority of our sales in all of our channels are digitally enabled, and we must anticipate and meet changing guest expectations and counteract new developments and technology investments by our competitors. our evolving retailing efforts include implementing new technology, software and processes to be able to fulfill guest orders directly from our vendors and from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers. providing flexible fulfillment options is complex and may not meet guest expectations for accurate order fulfillment, faster and guaranteed delivery times, and low-price or free shipping. if we are unable to attract and retain team members or contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support these efforts, implement improvements to our guest facing technology in a timely manner, allow real-time and accurate visibility to product availability when guests are ready to purchase, quickly and efficiently fulfill our guests orders using the fulfillment and payment methods they demand, or provide a convenient and consistent experience for our guests across all sales channels, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, if target.com and our other guest facing technology systems do not appeal to our guests, reliably function as designed, integrate across all sales channels, or maintain the privacy of guest data, or if we are unable consistently meet our guests' expectations, we may experience a loss of guest confidence and lost sales, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margins and profitability could suffer. a large part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend right decisions and effectively manage our inventory in a broad range of merchandise categories, including apparel, accessories, home d cor, electronics, toys, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. for example, our apparel and home d cor assortment is continually evolving and in other areas of our product assortment, including food, we are supporting guest wellness goals and becoming more localized with items that appeal to local cultural and demographic tastes. failure to obtain accurate and relevant data on guest preferences, predict changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, emphasize the correct categories, implement effective promotions, and personalize our offerings to our guests may result in lost sales, spoilage, and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations by hurting our sales, gross margins, and profitability. technology investments and infrastructure risks if our capital investments in technology, supply chain, new stores and remodeling existing stores do not achieve appropriate returns, our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. our business is becoming increasingly reliant on technology investments, and the returns on these investments can be less predictable than building new stores and remodeling existing stores. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to support our efforts to provide a consistent guest experience across all sales channels, implement improvements to our guest facing technology, and evolve our supply chain and our inventory management systems, information processes, and computer systems to more efficiently run our business and remain competitive and relevant to our guests. these technology initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace, which depends on our ability to accurately forecast our needs and is influenced by the amount and pace of investments by our competitors. in addition, our growth also depends, in part, on our ability to build new stores and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. many of our expected new store sites are smaller and non-standard footprints located in fully developed markets, which require changes to our supply chain practices and are generally more time-consuming, expensive and uncertain undertakings than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 6 a significant disruption in our computer systems and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain guest confidence. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage and account for inventory, process guest transactions, manage and maintain the privacy of guest data, communicate with our vendors and other third parties, service redcard accounts, summarize and analyze results, and on continued and unimpeded access to the internet to use our computer systems. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly or reliably, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, engage in additional promotional activities to retain our guests, and encounter lost guest confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we continually make significant technology investments that will help maintain and update our existing computer systems. implementing significant system changes increases the risk of computer system disruption. the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce our operational efficiency, and could negatively impact guest experience and guest confidence. data security and privacy risks if our efforts to protect the security of information about our guests, team members and vendors are unsuccessful, we may face additional costly government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our sales and reputation could suffer. an important component of our business involves the receipt and storage of information about our guests, team members, and vendors. we have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, vendors, and temporary staff. until the data breach in the fourth quarter of 2013, all incidents we experienced were insignificant. the data breach we experienced in 2013 was significant and went undetected for several weeks. both we and our vendors have experienced data security incidents subsequent to the 2013 data breach; however, to date these other incidents have not been material to our consolidated financial statements. based on the prominence and notoriety of the 2013 data breach, even minor additional data security incidents could draw greater scrutiny. if we or our vendors experience additional significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to additional government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, which could cause them to discontinue using our redcards or loyalty programs, or stop shopping with us altogether. supply chain and third party risks interruptions in our supply chain or fulfillment network, increased commodity, supply chain and fulfillment costs, or changes in our relationships with our vendors could adversely affect our gross margins, expenses and results of operations. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise to our distribution centers, stores and our guests in a timely and efficient manner. as we continue to add fulfillment capabilities or pursue strategies with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. if our fulfillment network does not operate properly or if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks, delivery delays or increased delivery costs that could lead to lost sales and decreased guest confidence, and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, currency fluctuations, trade restrictions, the outbreak 7 of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events that could slow or disrupt port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. there have been periodic labor disputes impacting the u.s. ports that have caused us to make alternative arrangements to continue the flow of inventory, and if these types of disputes recur or worsen, it may have a material impact on our costs or inventory supply. changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, including vendor costs, labor, fuel, tariffs, currency exchange rates and supply chain transparency initiatives, could have an adverse effect on gross margins, expenses and results of operations. changes in our relationships with our vendors also have the potential to increase our expenses and adversely affect results of operations. a disruption in relationships with third parties who provide us services in connection with certain aspects of our business could adversely affect our operations. we rely on third parties to support a variety of business functions, including portions of our technology development and systems, our digital platforms and distribution network operations, credit and debit card transaction processing, extensions of credit for our 5% redcard rewards loyalty program, the clinics and pharmacies operated by cvs within our stores, the infrastructure supporting our guest contact centers, and aspects of our food offerings. if we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support those strategies or integrate their products and services with our business, or if we fail to properly manage those third parties or if they fail to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, then our reputation, sales, and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, we could face increased costs associated with finding replacement providers or hiring new team members to provide these services in-house. if our guests do not react favorably to cvs's operations or if our relationship with cvs is ineffective, our ability to discontinue the relationship is limited and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, if we wish to have clinics and pharmacies in any new stores, those clinics and pharmacies must be owned and operated by cvs. legal, regulatory, global and other external risks our earnings are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. virtually all of our sales are in the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. these same considerations impact the success of our credit card program. even though we no longer own a consumer credit card receivables portfolio, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with td. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in us receiving lower profit sharing payments. weather conditions where our stores are located may impact consumer shopping patterns, which alone or together with natural disasters, particularly in areas where our sales are concentrated, could adversely affect our results of operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states by total sales are california, texas and florida, areas where natural disasters are more prevalent. natural disasters in those states or in other areas where our sales are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores, distribution centers or key vendors, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers, stores, and directly to guests, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. 8 we rely on a large, global and changing workforce of target team members, contractors and temporary staffing. if we do not effectively manage our workforce and the concentration of work in certain global locations, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. with approximately 341,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business and regulatory compliance is dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain the appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors, and temporary staffing and effectively organize and manage those resources as our business and strategic priorities change. many team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our changing labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, collective bargaining efforts, health care and other benefit costs, changing demographics, and our reputation and relevance within the labor market. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers and an appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors and temporary staffing, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. we maintain a headquarters location in india where there has generally been greater political, financial, environmental and health instability than the united states. an extended disruption of our operations in india could adversely affect certain operations supporting stability and maintenance of our digital sales channels and information technology development. failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. our failure to comply with federal, state, local, and international laws, or changes in these laws could increase our costs, reduce our margins, and lower our sales. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations in the united states and other countries in which we operate. significant workforce-related legislative changes could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible workforce-related legislative changes include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, advance scheduling notice requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment affecting privacy and information security, product safety, payment methods and related fees, responsible sourcing, supply chain transparency, or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, including wage and hour laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and local anti-bribery laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs, reducing our margins, and lowering our sales. financial risks changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our net income. a number of factors influence our effective income tax rate, including changes in tax law, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. in addition, our operations outside of the united states may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. 9 if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid, and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and capital investments. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to fund portions of our capital investments and the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital. our continued access to these markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and maintaining strong credit ratings. if rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely impact our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to meet our capital requirements or fund our working capital needs, and lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at january 30, 2016 , our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating-rate. our interest rate exposure is primarily due to differences between our floating rate debt obligations compared to our floating rate short term investments. at january 30, 2016 , our floating rate short-term investments exceeded our floating rate debt by approximately $1,758 million. based on our balance sheet position at january 30, 2016 , the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on our floating rate short-term investments, net of our debt obligations, would decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $2 million. in general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short-term investments over time, but that may vary in different interest rate environments. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 20 and 21 of the notes to financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. based on our balance sheet position at january 30, 2016 , the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $9 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. a 0.5 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $32 million. to protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 55 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in note 15 and note 27 of the financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 31risk factors our business is subject to many risks. set forth below are the material risks we face. risks are listed in the categories where they primarily apply, but other categories may also apply. competitive and reputational risks our continued success is dependent on positive perceptions of target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target, our team members choose target as a place of employment and our vendors choose to do business with us is the reputation we have built over many years for serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, shareholders, and the communities in which we operate. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions, and broad access to social media makes it easy for anyone to provide public feedback that can influence perceptions of target. it may be difficult to control negative publicity, regardless of whether it is accurate. while reputations may take decades to build, any negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in negative mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations, or litigation. negative incidents could lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including consumer boycotts, lost sales, loss of new store and technology development opportunities, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties. in addition, vendors and others with whom we choose to do business may affect our reputation. for example, cvs operates clinics and pharmacies within our stores, and our guests' perceptions of and experiences with cvs may impact our reputation. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in the past, we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, store environment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs and marketing efforts. our ability to create a personalized guest experience through the collection and use of accurate and relevant guest data is important to our ability to differentiate from other retailers. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, the functionality, reliability, and speed of our digital channels and fulfillment options, our in-stock levels, the effectiveness of our promotions, the attractiveness of our third party offerings, such as the clinics and pharmacies owned and operated by cvs, and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors or the failure of our strategies could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margins, and expenses. we sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands. these brands are an important part of our business because they differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than equivalent national brand products and represent a significant portion of our overall sales. if we are unable to successfully develop and support our owned and exclusive brands, if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, or if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights in these brands, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. the continuing migration and evolution of retailing to digital channels has increased our challenges in differentiating ourselves from other retailers. in particular, consumers are able to quickly and conveniently comparison shop and determine real-time product availability using digital tools, which can lead to decisions based solely on price, the functionality of the digital tools or a combination of those and other factors. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our guests regardless of the ultimate sales channel. we must provide our guests and team members digital tools that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. failures to effectively execute in these efforts, actions by our competitors in response to these efforts, or failures of our vendors to manage their own channels, content and technology systems could hurt our ability to differentiate ourselves from other retailers and, as a result, have an adverse effect on sales, gross margins, and expenses. if we are unable to successfully provide a relevant and reliable experience for our guests, regardless of where our guest demand is ultimately fulfilled, our sales, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with guests across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others). our guests are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other 5 devices to shop in our stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary about all aspects of our business. we must anticipate and meet changing guest expectations and counteract new developments and technology investments by our competitors. our evolving retailing efforts include implementing new technology, software and processes to be able to fulfill guest orders directly from our vendors and from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers. providing flexible fulfillment options is complex and may not meet guest expectations for accurate order fulfillment, faster and guaranteed delivery times, and low-price or free shipping. if we are unable to attract and retain team members or contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support these efforts, implement improvements to our guest facing technology in a timely manner, collect accurate, relevant, and usable guest data to support our personalization efforts, allow real-time and accurate visibility to product availability when guests are ready to purchase, quickly and efficiently fulfill our guests orders using the fulfillment and payment methods they demand, or provide a convenient and consistent experience for our guests across all sales channels, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, if target.com and our other guest facing technology systems do not appeal to our guests, reliably function as designed, integrate across all sales channels, or maintain the privacy of guest data we may experience a loss of guest confidence and lost sales, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margins and profitability could suffer. a large part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend right decisions and effectively manage our inventory in a broad range of merchandise categories, including apparel, accessories, home d cor, electronics, toys, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. for example, our apparel and home d cor assortment is continually evolving and in other areas of our product assortment, including food, we are supporting guest wellness goals and offering more items that appeal to local cultural and demographic tastes. failure to obtain accurate and relevant data on guest preferences, predict changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, emphasize the correct categories, implement effective promotions, and personalize our offerings to our guests may result in lost sales, spoilage, and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations by hurting our sales, gross margins, and profitability. technology investments and infrastructure risks if our capital investments in technology, supply chain, new stores and remodeling existing stores do not achieve appropriate returns, our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. our business is becoming increasingly reliant on technology investments, and the returns on these investments can be less predictable than building new stores and remodeling existing stores. we are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to provide a consistent and improved guest experience across all sales channels and improve our supply chain and inventory management systems. these technology initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or desired return or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. our business also depends, in part, on our ability to build new stores and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. many of our expected new store sites are smaller and non-standard footprints located in fully developed markets, which require changes to our supply chain practices and are generally more time-consuming, expensive and uncertain undertakings than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. targeting the wrong technology or store opportunities, failing to make the best investments, being unable to make new concepts scalable or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. a significant disruption in our computer systems and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain guest confidence. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage and account for inventory, process guest transactions, manage and maintain the privacy of guest data, communicate with our vendors and other third parties, service redcard accounts, and summarize and analyze results. we also rely on continued and unimpeded access to the internet to use our computer systems. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malicious attacks, security breaches, and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly or reliably, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, engage in additional 6 promotional activities to retain our guests, and encounter lost guest confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we continually make significant technology investments that are intended to help maintain and update our existing computer systems. implementing significant system changes increases the risk of computer system disruption. the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives could disrupt or reduce our operational efficiency, and could negatively impact guest experience and guest confidence. data security and privacy risks if our efforts to protect the security of information about our guests, team members and vendors are unsuccessful, we may face additional costly government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our sales and reputation could suffer. we regularly receive and store information about our guests, team members, and vendors. we have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, vendors, and temporary staff. until the data breach we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2013, all incidents we encountered were insignificant. the data breach we experienced in 2013 was significant and went undetected for several weeks. both we and our vendors had data security incidents subsequent to the 2013 data breach; however, to date these other incidents have not been material to our consolidated financial statements. based on the prominence and notoriety of the 2013 data breach, even minor additional data security incidents could draw greater scrutiny. if we, our vendors, or other third parties with whom we do business experience additional significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to additional government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, which could cause them to discontinue using our redcards or loyalty programs, or stop shopping with us altogether. supply chain and third party risks changes in our relationships with our vendors, changes in tax policy or trade relations, interruptions in our supply chain or increased commodity or supply chain costs could adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise to our distribution centers, stores and guests. as we continue to add capabilities, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. if our fulfillment network does not operate properly or if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks, delivery delays or increased delivery costs, which could lead to lost sales and decreased guest confidence, and adversely affect our results of operations. a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. the results of the recent united states elections may signal a change in trade policy between the united states and other countries. because a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, major changes in tax policy or trade relations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of additional tariffs or duties on imported products, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, effective income tax rate, liquidity and net income. political or financial instability, currency fluctuations, changes in trade policy, trade restrictions, tariffs or duties, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events that could slow or disrupt port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could materially disrupt our supply of merchandise, increase our costs, and/or adversely affect our results of operations. there have been periodic labor disputes impacting the united states ports that have caused us to make alternative arrangements to continue the flow of inventory, and if these types of disputes recur, worsen, or occur in other countries through which we source products, it may have a material impact on our costs or inventory supply. changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, including vendor costs, labor, fuel, tariffs, duties, currency exchange rates, and supply chain transparency initiatives, could have an 7 adverse effect on gross margins, expenses, and results of operations. changes in our relationships with our vendors also have the potential to increase our expenses and adversely affect results of operations. a disruption in relationships with third party service providers could adversely affect our operations. we rely on third parties to support our business, including portions of our technology development and support, our digital platforms and fulfillment operations, credit and debit card transaction processing, extensions of credit for our 5% redcard rewards loyalty program, the clinics and pharmacies operated by cvs within our stores, the infrastructure supporting our guest contact centers, and aspects of our food offerings. if we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support those strategies or integrate their products and services with our business, if we fail to properly manage those third parties, if they fail to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, then our reputation, sales, and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, we could face increased costs associated with finding replacement providers or hiring and retaining team members to provide these services in-house. an example of our reliance on third parties is our relationship with cvs. if our guests do not react favorably to cvs's operations or if our relationship with cvs is ineffective, our ability to discontinue the relationship is limited and our results of operations may be adversely affected. in addition, if we wish to have clinics and pharmacies in any new stores, those clinics and pharmacies must be owned and operated by cvs, which limits our flexibility in designing and operating new stores and new store concepts. legal, regulatory, global and other external risks our earnings are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. virtually all of our sales are in the united states, making our results highly dependent on united states consumer confidence and the health of the united states economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth, reducing overall sales, and reducing gross margins. these same considerations impact the success of our credit card program. although we no longer own a consumer credit card receivables portfolio, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with td, which owns the receivables generated by our proprietary credit cards. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in us receiving lower profit sharing payments. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions, alone or together with natural disasters, could adversely affect our operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states by total sales are california, texas and florida, areas where natural disasters are more prevalent. natural disasters in those states or in other areas where our sales are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores, distribution centers or key vendors, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers, stores, and directly to guests, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. we rely on a large, global and changing workforce of team members, contractors and temporary staffing. if we do not effectively manage our workforce and the concentration of work in certain global locations, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. with over 300,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business and regulatory compliance is dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain the appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors, and temporary staffing and effectively organize and manage those resources as our business and strategic priorities change. many team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our changing labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as labor laws and regulations, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, collective bargaining efforts, health care and other be 8 nefit costs, changing demographics, and our reputation and relevance within the labor market. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers and an appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors and temporary staffing, our operations, guest service levels, support functions, and competitiveness could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. we maintain a headquarters location in india and sourcing offices in china where there has generally been greater political, financial, environmental and health instability than the united states. an extended disruption of our operations in india or offices in china could adversely affect certain operations supporting stability and maintenance of our digital channels, information technology development, and sourcing operations. failure to address product safety and sourcing concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or target's or our guests' expectations regarding safety, supply chain transparency and integrity of sources of supply, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. all of our vendors must also comply with our standards of vendor engagement, which cover a variety of expectations across multiple areas of social compliance, including supply chain transparency and sources of supply. we have a social compliance audit process, but we are also dependent on our vendors to ensure that the products we buy comply with our standards. negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell and events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived social compliance concerns could hurt our reputation and result in lost sales. for example, we recently terminated a relationship with a vendor that supplied us with cotton sheets that were represented to be 100 percent egyptian cotton after we discovered that the vendor substituted non-egyptian cotton. if that event or if similar events in the future cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, we could lose sales and it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. our failure to comply with federal, state, local, and international laws, or changes in these laws could increase our costs, reduce our margins, and lower our sales. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations in the united states and other countries in which we operate. significant workforce-related legislative changes could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible workforce-related legislative changes include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, advance scheduling notice requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment affecting privacy and information security, product safety, payment methods and related fees, responsible sourcing, supply chain transparency, or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, including wage and hour laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and local anti-bribery laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs, reducing our margins, and lowering our sales. financial risks changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and net income. a number of factors influence our effective income tax rate, including changes in tax law, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. in addition, our operations outside of the united states may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. 9 if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid, and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and capital investments. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to fund portions of our capital investments and the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital. our continued access to these markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and maintaining strong credit ratings. if rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely impact our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to meet our capital requirements or fund our working capital needs, and lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at january 28, 2017 , our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating-rate. our interest rate exposure is primarily due to differences between our floating rate debt obligations compared to our floating rate short term investments. at january 28, 2017 , our floating rate debt exceeded our floating rate short-term investments by approximately $140 million. based on our balance sheet position at january 28, 2017 , the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point increase in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate short-term investments, would not be significant. in general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short-term investments over time, but that may vary in different interest rate environments. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 20 and 21 to the financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. based on our balance sheet position at january 28, 2017 , the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $7 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. a 0.5 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $30 million. to protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 55 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in notes 15 and 27 to the financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 29risk factors our business is subject to many risks. set forth below are the material risks we face. risks are listed in the categories where they primarily apply, but other categories may also apply. competitive and reputational risks our continued success is dependent on positive perceptions of target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target, our team members choose target as a place of employment and our vendors choose to do business with us is the reputation we have built over many years for serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, shareholders, and the communities in which we operate. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions, and broad access to social media makes it easy for anyone to provide public feedback that can influence perceptions of target. it may be difficult to control negative publicity, regardless of whether it is accurate. while reputations may take decades to build, any negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in negative mainstream and social media publicity, consumer boycotts, governmental investigations, or litigation. in addition, vendors and others with whom we choose to do business may affect our reputation. for example, cvs operates clinics and pharmacies within our stores, and our guests' perceptions of and experiences with cvs may affect our reputation. negative reputational incidents could adversely affect our business through lost sales, loss of new store and technology development opportunities, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in the past, we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, store environment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs, and marketing efforts. our ability to create a personalized guest experience through the collection and use of accurate and relevant guest data is important to our ability to differentiate from other retailers. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, the functionality, reliability, and speed of our digital channels and fulfillment options, our in-stock levels, the effectiveness of our promotions, the attractiveness of our third party offerings, such as the clinics and pharmacies owned and operated by cvs, and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors or the failure of our strategies could adversely affect our sales, gross margins, and expenses. we sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands, which help differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than equivalent national brand products and represent a significant portion of our overall sales. if we are unable to successfully develop, support, and evolve our owned and exclusive brands, if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, or if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights in these brands, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. the continuing migration of retailing to digital channels has increased our challenges in differentiating ourselves from other retailers. in particular, consumers are able to quickly and conveniently comparison shop and determine real-time product availability using digital tools, which can lead to decisions based solely on price, the functionality of the digital tools or a combination of factors. we must compete by offering a consistent, convenient shopping experience and value for our guests regardless of sales channel and by providing our guests and team members with reliable, effective, and easy-to-use digital tools. any difficulties in executing our differentiation efforts, actions by our competitors in response to these efforts, or failures by vendors in managing their own channels, content and technology systems could hurt our ability to differentiate ourselves from other retailers and adversely affect our sales, gross margins, and expenses. if we are unable to successfully provide a relevant and reliable experience for our guests, regardless of where our guest demand is ultimately fulfilled, our sales, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with guests across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others). our guests are using a variety of electronic devices and platforms to 5 shop in our stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary about all aspects of our business. we must anticipate and meet changing guest expectations and counteract new developments and technology investments by our competitors. our evolving retailing efforts include implementing new technology, software and processes to be able to cost-effectively fulfill guest orders directly from our vendors and from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers. providing flexible fulfillment options is complex and may not meet guest expectations for accurate order fulfillment, faster and guaranteed delivery times, and low-price or free shipping. if we are unable to attract and retain team members, contract with third parties, or make selective acquisitions to obtain the specialized skills needed to support these efforts, collect accurate, relevant, and usable guest data to support our personalization efforts, allow real-time and accurate visibility to product availability when guests are ready to purchase, quickly and efficiently fulfill orders using the fulfillment and payment methods guests demand, or provide a convenient and consistent experience for our guests across all sales channels, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, if target.com and our other technology systems do not appeal to our guests, integrate with our vendors or other third parties, reliably function as designed, integrate across all sales channels, or maintain the privacy of data, we may experience a loss of guest confidence and lost sales, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. if we do not anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margins and profitability could suffer. a large part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend right decisions and effectively manage our inventory in a broad range of merchandise categories, including apparel, accessories, home d cor, electronics, toys, seasonal offerings, food, and other merchandise. if we do not obtain accurate and relevant data on guest preferences, predict changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, emphasize the correct categories, implement competitive and effective pricing and promotion strategies, or personalize our offerings to our guests, we may experience lost sales, spoilage, and increased inventory markdowns, which would adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our gross margins and hurting our profitability. investments and infrastructure risks if our capital investments in remodeling existing stores, building new stores, and improving technology and supply chain infrastructure do not achieve appropriate returns, our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. our business depends, in part, on our ability to remodel existing stores and build new stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. our current store remodel program is larger than historic levels and is being implemented using a custom approach based on the condition of each store and characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood. when building new stores, we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. many of our expected new store sites are smaller, non-standard footprints located in fully developed markets, which require changes to our supply chain practices and are generally more time-consuming, expensive and uncertain undertakings than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. pursuing the wrong remodel or new store opportunities, any delays, cost increases, disruptions or other uncertainties related to those opportunities, and lower than expected sales from those opportunities, could adversely impact our results of operations. our business also relies on investments in technology and selective acquisitions, and the returns on these investments can be less predictable than remodeling and building stores. we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in technology and selective acquisitions to improve guest experiences across sales channels and improve our supply chain and inventory management systems. these investments might not provide the anticipated benefits or desired return. in addition, if we are unable to successfully protect any intellectual property rights resulting from our investments, the value received from those investments may be eroded, which could adversely affect our financial condition. targeting the wrong investment opportunities, failing to successfully meet our strategic objectives when making the correct investments, being unable to make new concepts scalable, making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs, or failing to effectively incorporate acquired businesses into our business could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 6 a significant disruption in our computer systems and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and our ability to maintain guest confidence. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage and account for inventory, process guest transactions, manage and maintain the privacy of guest data, communicate with our vendors and other third parties, service target-branded credit and debit card accounts, and summarize and analyze results. we also rely on continued and unimpeded access to the internet to use our computer systems. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malicious attacks, security breaches, and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly or reliably, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, engage in additional promotional activities to retain our guests, and encounter lost guest confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we continually invest to maintain and update our computer systems. implementing significant system changes increases the risk of computer system disruption. the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives, as well as providing training and support for those initiatives, could disrupt or reduce our operational efficiency, and could negatively impact guest experience and guest confidence. data security and privacy risks if our efforts to protect the security of information about our guests, team members, vendors and other third parties are unsuccessful, we may face additional costly government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our sales and reputation could suffer. we regularly receive and store information about our guests, team members, vendors and other third parties. we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to data security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties or through open source solutions may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, and vendors. until the data breach we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2013, all incidents we encountered were insignificant. the data breach we experienced in 2013 was significant and went undetected for several weeks. both we and our vendors had data security incidents subsequent to the 2013 data breach; however, to date these other incidents have not been material to our consolidated financial statements. based on the prominence and notoriety of the 2013 data breach, even minor additional data security incidents could draw greater scrutiny. if we, our vendors, or other third parties with whom we do business experience additional significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to additional government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, which could cause them to discontinue using our redcards or loyalty programs, or stop shopping with us altogether. supply chain and third party risks changes in our relationships with our vendors, changes in tax policy or trade relations, interruptions in our supply chain or increased commodity or supply chain costs could adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise to our distribution centers, stores, and guests. as we continue to add capabilities, operating our fulfillment network becomes more complex and challenging. if our fulfillment network does not operate properly or if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks, delivery delays or increased delivery costs, which could lead to lost sales and decreased guest confidence, and adversely affect our results of operations. a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source, so any major changes in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of additional tariffs 7 or duties on imported products, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, effective income tax rate, liquidity and net income. political or financial instability, currency fluctuations, changes in trade policy, trade restrictions, tariffs or duties, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events that could slow or disrupt port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could materially disrupt our supply of merchandise, increase our costs, and/or adversely affect our results of operations. there have been periodic labor disputes impacting the united states ports that have caused us to make alternative arrangements to continue the flow of inventory, and if these types of disputes recur, worsen, or occur in other countries through which we source products, it may have a material impact on our costs or inventory supply. changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, including vendor costs, labor, fuel, tariffs, duties, currency exchange rates, and supply chain transparency initiatives, could have an adverse effect on gross margins, expenses, and results of operations. changes in our relationships with our vendors also have the potential to increase our expenses and adversely affect results of operations. a disruption in relationships with third party service providers could adversely affect our operations. we rely on third parties to support our business, including portions of our technology development and support, our digital platforms and fulfillment operations, credit and debit card transaction processing, extensions of credit for our 5% redcard rewards loyalty program, the clinics and pharmacies operated by cvs within our stores, the infrastructure supporting our guest contact centers, aspects of our food offerings, and delivery services. if we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support those strategies or integrate their products and services with our business, if we fail to properly manage those third parties, if they fail to meet our performance standards and expectations, including with respect to data security, then our reputation, sales, and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, we could face increased costs or be limited in finding replacement providers or hiring and retaining team members to provide these services in-house. for example, if our guests unfavorably view cvs's operations or if our relationship with cvs does not meet our strategic objectives, our ability to discontinue the relationship is limited and our results of operations may be adversely affected. legal, regulatory, global and other external risks our earnings depend on the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. virtually all of our sales are in the united states, making our results highly dependent on united states consumer confidence and the health of the united states economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth, reducing overall sales, and reducing gross margins. these same considerations impact the success of our credit card program. although we no longer own a consumer credit card receivables portfolio, we share in the profits generated by the credit card program with td bank group (td), which owns the receivables generated by our proprietary credit cards. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in us receiving lower profit sharing payments. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions, alone or together with natural disasters, could adversely affect our operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states by total sales are california, texas and florida, areas where natural disasters are more prevalent. natural disasters in those states or in other areas where our sales are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores, distribution centers or key vendors, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers, stores, and guests, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. 8 we rely on a large, global and changing workforce of team members, contractors and temporary staffing. if we do not effectively manage our workforce and the concentration of work in certain global locations, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. with over 300,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain the appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors, and temporary staffing and effectively organize and manage those resources as our business and strategic priorities change. many team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our changing labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as labor laws and regulations, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, collective bargaining efforts, health care and other benefit costs, changing demographics, and our reputation and relevance within the labor market. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers and an appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors and temporary staffing, our operations, guest service levels, support functions, and competitiveness could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. we have offices in india and china where there has generally been greater political, financial, environmental and health instability than the united states. an extended disruption of our operations in india or offices in china could adversely affect our operations and financial results. failure to address product safety and sourcing concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or target's or our guests' expectations regarding safety, supply chain transparency and integrity of sources of supply, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. our sourcing vendors must also meet our expectations across multiple areas of social compliance, including supply chain transparency and sources of supply. we have a social compliance audit process, but we are also dependent on our vendors to ensure that the products we buy comply with our standards. negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell and events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived social compliance concerns could hurt our reputation, result in lost sales, cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, and make it difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. our failure to comply with federal, state, local, and international laws, or changes in these laws could increase our costs, reduce our margins, and lower our sales. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations in the united states and other countries in which we operate. our expenses could increase, and our operations could be adversely affected by significant legislative changes to workforce-related issues, including an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, the classification of exempt and non-exempt employees, the distinction between employees and contractors, minimum wage requirements, advance scheduling notice requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment affecting privacy and information security, product safety, payment methods and related fees, responsible sourcing, supply chain transparency, or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, including wage and hour laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and local anti-bribery laws, we could be subject to reputation and legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs, reducing our margins, and lowering our sales. 9 financial risks changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and net income. a number of factors influence our effective income tax rate, including changes in tax law and related regulations, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. in addition, our operations outside of the united states may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid, and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and capital investments. our continued access to financial markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and maintaining strong credit ratings. if rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely impact our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to fund our operations and capital investments, and lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at february 3, 2018 , our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating-rate. our interest rate exposure is primarily due to differences between our floating rate debt obligations compared to our floating rate short term investments. at february 3, 2018 , our floating rate short-term investments exceeded our floating rate debt by approximately $900 million. based on our balance sheet position at february 3, 2018 , the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point increase in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate short-term investments, would not be significant. in general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short-term investments over time, but that may vary in different interest rate environments. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 20 and 21 to the financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. based on our balance sheet position at february 3, 2018 , the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $6 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. a 0.5 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $31 million. to protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 55 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in notes 15 and 27 to the financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 32risk factors our business is subject to many risks. set forth below are the material risks we face. risks are listed in the categories where they primarily apply, but other categories may also apply. competitive and reputational risks our continued success is dependent on positive perceptions of target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target, our team members choose target as a place of employment, and our vendors choose to do business with us is the reputation we have built over many years for serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, shareholders, and the communities in which we operate. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions, and broad access to social media makes it easy for anyone to provide public feedback that can influence perceptions of target. it may be difficult to control negative publicity, regardless of whether it is accurate. target's position or perceived lack of position on social, environmental, public policy or other sensitive issues, and any perceived lack of transparency about those matters, could harm our reputation with certain groups or guests. while reputations may take decades to build, negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence and can result in consumer boycotts, governmental investigations, or litigation. in addition, vendors and others with whom we do business may affect our reputation. for example, cvs operates clinics and pharmacies within our stores, and our guests' perceptions of and experiences with cvs may affect our reputation. negative reputational incidents could adversely affect our business through lost sales, loss of new store and development opportunities, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in the past, we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, store environment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs, and marketing efforts. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, the functionality, reliability, and speed of our digital channels and fulfillment options, our in-stock levels, and the value of our promotions are among the factors that affect our ability to compete. in addition, our ability to create a personalized guest experience through the collection and use of accurate and relevant guest data is important to our ability to differentiate from other retailers. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors or the failure of our strategies could adversely affect our sales, gross margins, and expenses. our owned and exclusive brand products help differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than equivalent national brand products and represent a significant portion of our overall sales. if we are unable to successfully develop, support, and evolve our owned and exclusive brands, if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, or if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. the retail industry's continuing migration to digital channels has affected the ways we differentiate ourselves from other retailers. in particular, consumers are able to quickly and conveniently comparison shop and determine real-time product availability using digital tools, which can lead to decisions based solely on price or the functionality of the digital tools. consumers may also use third-party channels or devices, such as voice assistants and smart home devices, to initiate shopping searches and place orders, which could sometimes make us dependent on the capabilities and search algorithms of those third parties to reach those consumers. any difficulties in executing our differentiation efforts, actions by our competitors in response to these efforts, or failures by vendors in managing their own channels, content and technology systems to support these efforts could adversely affect our sales, gross margins, and expenses. 5 if we are unable to successfully provide a relevant and reliable experience for our guests across multiple channels, our sales, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with guests across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile, social media, voice assistants, and smart home devices, among others). our guests are using those channels to shop with us and provide feedback and public commentary about our business. we must anticipate and meet changing guest expectations and counteract developments and investments by our competitors. our evolving retailing efforts include implementing technology, software and processes to be able to conveniently and cost-effectively fulfill guest orders directly from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers and from our vendors. we also need to collect accurate, relevant, and usable guest data to personalize our offerings. providing flexible fulfillment options and implementing new technology is complex and may not meet expectations for accurate order fulfillment, faster and guaranteed delivery times, low-price or free shipping, and desired payment methods. even when we are successful in meeting expectations for fulfillment, if we are unable to offset increased costs of fulfilling orders outside of our traditional in-store channel with efficiencies, cost-savings or expense reductions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if we do not anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales and profitability could suffer. a large part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend right decisions and effectively manage our inventory in a broad range of merchandise categories, including apparel, accessories, home d cor, electronics, toys, seasonal offerings, food, and other merchandise. if we do not obtain accurate and relevant data on guest preferences, predict changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, emphasize the correct categories, implement competitive and effective pricing and promotion strategies, or personalize our offerings to our guests, we may experience lost sales, spoilage, and increased inventory markdowns, which could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our profitability. investments and infrastructure risks if our capital investments in remodeling existing stores, building new stores, and improving technology and supply chain infrastructure do not achieve appropriate returns, our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business depends, in part, on our ability to remodel existing stores and build new stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. our current store remodel program is larger than historic levels and is being implemented using a custom approach based on the condition of each store and characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood. when building new stores, we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. many of our expected new store sites are smaller, non-standard footprints located in fully developed markets, which require changes to our supply chain practices and are generally more time-consuming, expensive and uncertain undertakings than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. pursuing the wrong remodel or new store opportunities and any delays, cost increases, disruptions or other uncertainties related to those opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in technology and selective acquisitions to improve guest experiences across multiple channels and improve our supply chain and inventory management systems. the effectiveness of these investments can be less predictable than remodeling stores, and might not provide the anticipated benefits or desired rates of return. in addition, if we are unable to successfully protect any intellectual property rights resulting from our investments, the value received from those investments may be eroded, which could adversely affect our financial condition. pursuing the wrong investment opportunities, being unable to make new concepts scalable, making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs, or failing to effectively incorporate acquired businesses into our business could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 6 a significant disruption in our computer systems and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect our guests. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage and account for inventory, process guest transactions, manage and maintain the privacy of guest data, communicate with our vendors and other third parties, service target-branded credit and debit card accounts, and summarize and analyze results. we also rely on continued and unimpeded access to the internet to use our computer systems. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malicious attacks, security breaches, and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly or reliably, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, and encounter lost guest confidence, which could require additional promotional activities to attract guests and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. we continually invest to maintain and update our computer systems. implementing significant system changes increases the risk of computer system disruption. the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives, as well as providing training and support for those initiatives, could disrupt or reduce our operational efficiency, and could negatively impact guest experience and guest confidence. data security and privacy risks if our efforts to provide information security are unsuccessful or if we are unable to meet increasingly demanding regulatory requirements, we may face additional costly government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our reputation and results of operations could suffer. we regularly receive and store information about our guests, team members, vendors and other third parties. we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to data security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, and vendors. prior to 2013, all data security incidents we encountered were insignificant. our 2013 data breach was significant and went undetected for several weeks. both we and our vendors have had data security incidents since the 2013 data breach; however, to date these other incidents have not been material to our results of operations. based on the prominence and notoriety of the 2013 data breach, even minor additional data security incidents could draw greater scrutiny. if we, our vendors, or other third parties with whom we do business experience additional significant data security incidents or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant incidents, we could be exposed to additional government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, discontinue using our redcards or loyalty programs, or stop shopping with us altogether, which could adversely affect our sales, reputation and results of operations. the legal and regulatory environment regarding information security, cybersecurity, and privacy is increasingly demanding and has enhanced requirements for handling personal data. complying with new data protection requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs, require changes to our business practices, limit our ability to obtain data used to provide a differentiated guest experience, and expose us to further litigation and regulatory risks, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. supply chain and third party risks changes in our relationships with our vendors, changes in tax or trade policy, interruptions in our supply chain or increased commodity or supply chain costs could adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise to our distribution centers, stores, and guests. as we continue to add capabilities, operating our fulfillment network becomes more complex and challenging. if our fulfillment network does not operate properly or if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks, delivery delays or increased delivery costs, which could lead to lost sales and decreased guest confidence, and adversely affect our results of operations. 7 a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the u.s., with china as our single largest source, so any major changes in tax or trade policy, such as the imposition of additional tariffs or duties on imported products, could require us to take certain actions, such as raising prices on products we sell, which could adversely affect our results of operations. political or financial instability, currency fluctuations, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events that could slow or disrupt port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could materially disrupt our supply of merchandise, increase our costs, and/or adversely affect our results of operations. there have been periodic labor disputes impacting the u.s. ports that have caused us to make alternative arrangements to continue the flow of inventory, and if these types of disputes recur, worsen, or occur in other countries through which we source products, it may have a material impact on our costs or inventory supply. changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, could adversely affect our results of operations. a disruption in relationships with third party service providers could adversely affect our operations. we rely on third parties to support our business, including portions of our technology infrastructure, development and support, our digital platforms and fulfillment operations, credit and debit card transaction processing, extensions of credit for our 5% redcard rewards loyalty program, the clinics and pharmacies operated by cvs within our stores, the infrastructure supporting our guest contact centers, aspects of our food offerings, and delivery services. if we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support those strategies or integrate their products and services with our business, or if they fail to meet our performance standards and expectations, then our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected. for example, if our guests unfavorably view cvs's operations, our ability to discontinue the relationship is limited and our results of operations could be adversely affected. legal, regulatory, global and other external risks our earnings depend on the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the u.s. nearly all of our sales are in the u.s., making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth, reducing overall sales, and reducing gross margins. these same considerations impact the success of our credit card program. although we no longer own a consumer credit card receivables portfolio, we share in the profits generated by the credit card program with td bank group (td), which owns the receivables generated by our proprietary credit cards. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or changes in consumer preferences concerning our credit card program could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances, and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in us receiving lower profit sharing payments. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions, alone or together with natural disasters, could adversely affect our operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states by total sales are california, texas and florida, areas where natural disasters are more prevalent. natural disasters in those states or in other areas where our sales are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores, distribution centers or key vendors, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers, stores, and guests, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. 8 we rely on a large, global and changing workforce of team members, contractors and temporary staffing. if we do not effectively manage our workforce and the concentration of work in certain global locations, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. with over 300,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain the appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors, and temporary staffing and effectively organize and manage those resources as our business and strategic priorities change. many team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our changing labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as labor laws and regulations, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, benefit costs, changing demographics, and our reputation and relevance within the labor market. if we are unable to attract and retain a workforce meeting our needs, our operations, guest service levels, support functions, and competitiveness could suffer and our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. we also have support offices in india and china, and any extended disruption of our operations in those locations, whether due to labor difficulties or otherwise, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. failure to address product safety and sourcing concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or target's or our guests' expectations regarding safety, supply chain transparency and responsible sourcing, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. our sourcing vendors must also meet our expectations across multiple areas of social compliance, including supply chain transparency and responsible sourcing. we have a social compliance audit process, but we are also dependent on our vendors to ensure that the products we buy comply with our standards. negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell and events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived compliance concerns could hurt our reputation, result in lost sales, cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, and make it difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. our failure to comply with federal, state, local, and international laws, or changes in these laws could increase our costs, reduce our margins, and lower our sales. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate. our expenses could increase, and our operations could be adversely affected by significant legislative changes or other legal developments on workforce-related issues, including an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, the classification of exempt and non-exempt employees, the distinction between employees and contractors, minimum wage requirements, advance scheduling notice requirements, and health care mandates. changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting data privacy and information security, product safety, payment methods and related fees, responsible sourcing, supply chain transparency, or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, including wage and hour laws, the foreign corrupt practices act and local anti-bribery laws, we could be subject to reputation and legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs, reducing our margins, and lowering our sales. financial risks increases in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and net income. a number of factors influence our effective income tax rate, including changes in tax law and related regulations, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. in addition, our operations outside of the u.s. may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. 9 if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid, and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and capital investments. our continued access to financial markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and maintaining strong credit ratings. if rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely affect our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to fund our operations and capital investments, and lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at february 2, 2019 , our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a london interbank offered rate (libor)-plus floating-rate. our interest rate exposure is primarily due to differences between our floating rate debt obligations compared to our floating rate short-term investments. at february 2, 2019 , our floating rate debt exceeded our floating rate short-term investments by approximately $700 million. based on our balance sheet position at february 2, 2019 , the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point increase in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate short-term investments, would not be significant. in general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short-term investments over time, but that may vary in different interest rate environments. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 16 and 17 to the financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. based on our balance sheet position at february 2, 2019 , the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $6 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. a 1 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $68 million. to protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 60 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in notes 12 and 23 to the financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that substantially offset our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 31risk factors our business is subject to many risks. set forth below are the material risks we face. risks are listed in the categories where they primarily apply, but other categories may also apply. competitive and reputational risks our continued success is dependent on positive perceptions of target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. we believe that one of the reasons our guests, team members, and vendors choose target is the positive reputation we have built over many years for serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, shareholders, and the communities in which we operate. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions, and broad access to social media makes it easy for anyone to provide public feedback that can influence perceptions of target. it may be difficult to control negative publicity, regardless of whether it is accurate. target's position or perceived lack of position on social, environmental, public policy or other sensitive issues, and any perceived lack of transparency about those matters, could harm our reputation with certain groups or guests. while reputations may take decades to build, negative incidents can quickly erode trust and confidence and can result in consumer boycotts, governmental investigations, or litigation. in addition, vendors and others with whom we do business may affect our reputation. for example, cvs operates clinics and pharmacies within our stores, and our guests' perceptions of and experiences with cvs may affect our reputation. negative reputational incidents could adversely affect our business through lost sales, loss of new store and development opportunities, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in the past, we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, store environment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs, and marketing efforts. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, the functionality, reliability, and speed of our digital channels and fulfillment options, our in-stock levels, and the value of our promotions are among the factors that affect our ability to compete. in addition, our ability to create a personalized guest experience through the collection and use of accurate and relevant guest data is important to our ability to differentiate from other retailers. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors or the failure of our strategies could adversely affect our sales, gross margins, and expenses. our owned and exclusive brand products help differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than equivalent national brand products and represent a significant portion of our overall sales. if we are unable to successfully develop, support, and evolve our owned and exclusive brands, if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, or if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. target corporation 2019 form 10-k 4 risk factors table of contents index to financial statements the retail industry's continuing migration to digital channels has affected the ways we differentiate ourselves from other retailers. in particular, consumers are able to quickly and conveniently comparison shop and determine real-time product availability using digital tools, which can lead to decisions based solely on price or the functionality of the digital tools. consumers may also use third-party channels or devices, such as voice assistants and smart home devices, to initiate shopping searches and place orders, which could sometimes make us dependent on the capabilities and search algorithms of those third parties to reach those consumers. any difficulties in executing our differentiation efforts, actions by our competitors in response to these efforts, or failures by vendors in managing their own channels, content and technology systems to support these efforts could adversely affect our sales, gross margins, and expenses. if we are unable to successfully provide a relevant and reliable experience for our guests across multiple channels, our sales, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with guests across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile, social media, voice assistants, and smart home devices, among others). our guests are using those channels to shop with us and provide feedback and public commentary about our business. we must anticipate and meet changing guest expectations and counteract developments and investments by our competitors. our evolving retailing efforts include implementing technology, software and processes to be able to conveniently and cost-effectively fulfill guest orders directly from any point within our system of stores and distribution centers and from our vendors. we also need to collect accurate, relevant, and usable guest data to personalize our offerings. providing multiple fulfillment options and implementing new technology is complex and may not meet expectations for accurate order fulfillment, faster and guaranteed delivery times, low-cost or free shipping, and desired payment methods. even when we are successful in meeting expectations for fulfillment, if we are unable to offset increased costs of fulfilling orders outside of our traditional in-store channel with efficiencies, cost-savings or expense reductions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if we do not anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales and profitability could suffer. a large part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions and effectively manage our inventory in a broad range of merchandise categories, including apparel, accessories, home d cor, electronics, toys, seasonal offerings, food, and other merchandise. if we do not obtain accurate and relevant data on guest preferences, predict changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, emphasize the correct categories, implement competitive and effective pricing and promotion strategies, or personalize our offerings to our guests, we may experience lost sales, spoilage, and increased inventory markdowns, which could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing our profitability. investments and infrastructure risks if our capital investments in remodeling existing stores, building new stores, and improving technology and supply chain infrastructure do not achieve appropriate returns, our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business depends, in part, on our ability to remodel existing stores and build new stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. our store remodel program is larger than historic levels and is being implemented using a custom approach based on the condition of each store and characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood. when building new stores, we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. pursuing the wrong remodel or new store opportunities and any delays, cost increases, disruptions or other uncertainties related to those opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are making, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in technology and selective acquisitions to improve guest experiences across multiple channels and improve the speed, accuracy, and cost efficiency of our supply chain and inventory management systems. the effectiveness of these investments can be less predictable than remodeling stores, and might not provide the anticipated benefits or desired rates of return. in addition, if we are unable to successfully protect any intellectual property rights resulting from our investments, the value received from those investments may be eroded, which could adversely affect our financial condition. target corporation 2019 form 10-k 5 risk factors table of contents index to financial statements pursuing the wrong investment opportunities, being unable to make new concepts scalable, making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs, or failing to effectively incorporate acquired businesses into our business could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. a significant disruption in our computer systems and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems could adversely affect our operations and negatively affect our guests. we rely extensively on computer systems throughout our business. we also rely on continued and unimpeded access to the internet to use our computer systems. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malicious attacks, security breaches, catastrophic events, and implementation errors. if our systems are damaged, disrupted or fail to function properly or reliably, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss or theft and impediments to our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, and encounter lost guest confidence, which could require additional promotional activities to attract guests and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. we continually invest to maintain and update our computer systems. implementing significant system changes increases the risk of computer system disruption. the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology initiatives, as well as providing training and support for those initiatives, could disrupt or reduce our operational efficiency, and could negatively impact guest experience and guest confidence. for example, during the past year we experienced disruptions in our point-of-sale system that prevented our ability to process debit or credit transactions, negatively impacted some guests' experiences, and generated negative publicity. information security, cybersecurity and data privacy risks if our efforts to provide information security, cybersecurity and data privacy are unsuccessful or if we are unable to meet increasingly demanding regulatory requirements, we may face additional costly government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our reputation and results of operations could suffer. we regularly receive and store information about our guests, team members, vendors, and other third parties. we have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to data security incidents. however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. in addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy. unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our team members, contractors, and vendors. prior to 2013, all data security incidents we encountered were insignificant. our 2013 data breach was significant and went undetected for several weeks. both we and our vendors have had data security incidents since the 2013 data breach; however, to date these other incidents have not been material to our results of operations. based on the prominence and notoriety of the 2013 data breach, even minor additional data security incidents could draw greater scrutiny. if we, our vendors, or other third parties with whom we do business experience additional significant data security incidents or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant incidents, we could be exposed to additional government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their information, discontinue using our redcards or loyalty programs, or stop shopping with us altogether, which could adversely affect our reputation, sales, and results of operations. the legal and regulatory environment regarding information security, cybersecurity, and data privacy is increasingly demanding and has enhanced requirements for using and treating personal data. complying with new data protection requirements, such as those imposed by the recently effective california data privacy laws, may cause us to incur substantial costs, require changes to our business practices, limit our ability to obtain data used to provide a differentiated guest experience, and expose us to further litigation and regulatory risks, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations. target corporation 2019 form 10-k 6 risk factors table of contents index to financial statements supply chain and third-party risks changes in our relationships with our vendors, changes in tax or trade policy, interruptions in our supply chain or increased commodity or supply chain costs could adversely affect our results of operations. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise to our distribution centers, stores, and guests. as we continue to add capabilities to quickly move the appropriate amount of inventory at optimal operational costs through our entire supply chain, operating our fulfillment network becomes more complex and challenging. if our fulfillment network does not operate properly or if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks, delivery delays or increased delivery costs, which could lead to lost sales and decreased guest confidence, and adversely affect our results of operations. a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the u.s., with china as our single largest source, so any major changes in tax or trade policy, such as the imposition of additional tariffs or duties on imported products, between the u.s. and countries from which we source merchandise could require us to take certain actions, including for example raising prices on products we sell and seeking alternative sources of supply from vendors in other countries with whom we have less familiarity, which could adversely affect our reputation, sales, and our results of operations. political or financial instability, currency fluctuations, the outbreak of pandemics or other illnesses (such as the recent coronavirus), labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events that could slow or disrupt port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could materially disrupt our supply of merchandise, increase our costs, and/or adversely affect our results of operations. there have been periodic labor disputes impacting the u.s. ports that have caused us to make alternative arrangements to continue the flow of inventory, and if these types of disputes recur, worsen, or occur in other countries through which we source products, it may have a material impact on our costs or inventory supply. changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, could adversely affect our results of operations. a disruption in relationships with third-party service providers could adversely affect our operations. we rely on third parties to support our business, including portions of our technology infrastructure, development and support, our digital platforms and fulfillment operations, credit and debit card transaction processing, extensions of credit for our 5% redcard rewards loyalty program, the clinics and pharmacies operated by cvs within our stores, the infrastructure supporting our guest contact centers, aspects of our food offerings, and delivery services. if we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support those strategies or integrate their products and services with our business, or if they fail to meet our performance standards and expectations, then our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected. for example, if our guests unfavorably view cvs's operations, our ability to discontinue the relationship is limited and our results of operations could be adversely affected. legal, regulatory, global and other external risks our earnings depend on the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the u.s. nearly all of our sales are in the u.s., making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth, reducing overall sales, and reducing gross margins. these same considerations impact the success of our credit card program. we share in the profits generated by the credit card program with td bank group (td), which owns the receivables generated by our proprietary credit cards. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions or changes in consumer preferences concerning our credit card program could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances, and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in us receiving lower profit-sharing payments. target corporation 2019 form 10-k 7 risk factors table of contents index to financial statements uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions, natural disasters, and other catastrophic events could adversely affect our results of operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states by total sales are california, texas and florida, areas where natural disasters are more prevalent. natural disasters in those states or in other areas where our sales or operations are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores, distribution centers, facilities, or key vendors. in addition, natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as the recent coronavirus outbreak, in areas where we or our vendors have operations, could cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers, stores, and guests, affect consumer purchasing power, or reduce consumer demand, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. we rely on a large, global and changing workforce of team members, contractors and temporary staffing. if we do not effectively manage our workforce and the concentration of work in certain global locations, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. with over 300,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train, and retain the appropriate mix of qualified team members, contractors, and temporary staffing and effectively organize and manage those resources as our business and strategic priorities change. many team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our changing labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as labor laws and regulations, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, benefit costs, changing demographics, and our reputation and relevance within the labor market. if we are unable to attract and retain a workforce meeting our needs, our operations, guest service levels, support functions, and competitiveness could suffer and our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. we also have support offices in india and china, and any extended disruption of our operations in those locations, whether due to labor difficulties or otherwise, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. failure to address product safety and sourcing concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or target's or our guests' expectations regarding safety, supply chain transparency and responsible sourcing, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination and product defects, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. our sourcing vendors, including any third parties selling through our digital channels, must also meet our expectations across multiple areas of social compliance, including supply chain transparency and responsible sourcing. we have a social compliance audit process that perform audits on a regular basis, but we cannot continuously monitor every vendor, so we are also dependent on our vendors to ensure that the products we buy comply with our standards. if we need to seek alternative sources of supply from vendors with whom we have less familiarity, the risk of our standards not being met may increase. negative guest perceptions regarding the safety and sourcing of the products we sell and events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived compliance and social responsibility concerns could hurt our reputation, result in lost sales, cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, and make it difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. target corporation 2019 form 10-k 8 risk factors &amp; unresolved staff comments table of contents index to financial statements our failure to comply with federal, state, local, and international laws, or changes in these laws could increase our costs, reduce our margins, and lower our sales. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. our expenses could increase and our operations could be adversely affected by law changes or adverse judicial developments involving an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, minimum wage requirements, advance scheduling notice requirements, health care mandates, the classification of exempt and non-exempt employees, and the classification of workers as either employees or independent contractors (particularly as it applies to our shipt subsidiary, a technology company that connects shipt members through its online marketplace with a network of independent contractors who select, purchase, and deliver groceries and household essentials ordered from target and other retailers). the classification of workers as employees or independent contractors in particular is an area that is experiencing legal challenges and legislative changes. if our shipt subsidiary is required to treat its independent contractor network as employees, it could result in higher compensation and benefit costs. changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting information security, cybersecurity and data privacy, product safety, payment methods and related fees, responsible sourcing, supply chain transparency, or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with other applicable laws and regulations, including the foreign corrupt practices act and local anti-bribery laws, we could be subject to reputation and legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs, reducing our margins, and lowering our sales. financial risks increases in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and net income. a number of factors influence our effective income tax rate, including changes in tax law and related regulations, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our net income. in addition, our operations outside of the u.s. may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid, and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and capital investments. our continued access to financial markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and maintaining strong credit ratings. if rating agencies lower our credit ratings, it could adversely affect our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to fund our operations and capital investments, and lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as of february 1, 2020, our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a london interbank offered rate (libor). our interest rate exposure is primarily due to differences between our floating rate debt obligations compared to our floating rate short-term investments. as of february 1, 2020, our floating rate short-term investments exceeded our floating rate debt by approximately $300 million. based on our balance sheet position as of february 1, 2020, the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point increase in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate short-term investments, would not be significant. in general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short-term investments over time, but that may vary in different interest rate environments. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 15 and 16 to the financial statements. in 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority announced the intent to phase out libor by the end of 2021. as a result, we may amend our contracts that use libor as a benchmark, but do not expect these changes will have a material impact on our financial statements, liquidity and access to capital markets. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. based on our balance sheet position as of february 1, 2020, the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $6 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plan. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. a 1 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $61 million. to protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 60 percent of the interest rate exposure of our plan liabilities. as more fully described in note 22 to the financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that substantially offset our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. target corporation 2019 form 10-k 29 financial statements table of contents index index to financial statementsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the registrant's operations are not currently subject to market risks of a material nature for interest rates, foreign currency rates, commodity prices or other market price risks. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the registrant's operations are not currently subject to market risks of a material nature for interest rates, foreign currency rates, commodity prices or other market price risks. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk, page 23; and derivatives, pages 33-34 of registrant's 2003 annual report to shareholders are incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors. 6 risk factors. a description of risk factors and cautionary statements relating to forward-looking information is included in exhibit (99)a to this form 10-k, which is incorporated herein by reference. risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our exposure to market risk results primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations and on our credit card receivables, the majority of which are now assessed finance charges at a prime-based floating rate. to preserve our net interest margin, we intend to maintain sufficient levels of floating-rate debt to generate parallel changes in net interest expense as finance charge revenues fluctuate. at february 3, 2007, our level of floating-rate debt obligations exceeded our level of floating-rate credit card assets by approximately $1 billion. as a result, based on our balance sheet position at february 3, 2007, the annualized effect of a one percentage point increase in floating interest rates on our interest rate swap agreements and other floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate credit card assets, would be to decrease earnings from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $10 million. see further description in note 21. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. as a result, we do not have significant net exposure to interest rate changes for these liabilities. in addition, we are exposed to fluctuations of market returns on our qualified defined benefit pension and nonqualified defined contribution plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in the return on pension plan assets would decrease plan assets by $21 million at february 3, 2007. the resulting impact on net pension expense would be calculated consistent with the provisions of sfas no. 87, "employers' accounting for pensions." see further description in note 28. as more fully described in note 14 and note 27, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control our risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. we do not have significant direct exposure to foreign currency rates as all of our stores are located in the united states and the vast majority of imported merchandise is purchased in u.s. dollars. overall, there have been no material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors a description of risk factors and cautionary statements relating to forward-looking information is included in exhibit (99)a to this form 10-k, which is incorporated herein by reference. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk results primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations and on our credit card receivables, the majority of which are assessed finance charges at a prime-based floating rate. to manage our net interest margin, we generally maintain levels of floating-rate debt to generate similar changes in net interest expense as finance charge revenues fluctuate. our degree of floating asset and liability matching may vary over time and vary in different interest rate environments. at february 2, 2008, our level of floating-rate credit card assets exceeded our level of net floating-rate debt obligations by approximately $1.4 billion. as a result, based on our balance sheet position at february 2, 2008, the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on our interest rate swap agreements and other floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate credit card assets and marketable securities, would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $14 million. see further description in note 20 and note 29. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically and in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at february 2, 2008, the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $16 million. in addition, we are exposed to fluctuations of market returns on our qualified defined benefit pension and nonqualified defined contribution plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in the return on pension plan assets would decrease plan assets by $22 million at february 2, 2008. the resulting impact on net pension expense would be calculated consistent with the provisions of sfas no. 87, "employers' accounting for pensions." the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. to protect against declines in interest rates we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year end, we had hedged approximately 50 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. see further description in note 27. as more fully described in note 13 and note 26, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control our risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. we do not have significant direct exposure to foreign currency rates as all of our stores are located in the united states, and the vast majority of imported merchandise is purchased in u.s. dollars. overall, there have been no material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks. the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our guests and a brand they trust. meeting our guests' expectations requires us to manage various operational and financial risks. set forth below are the most significant risks that we face. our success depends on our ability to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service and marketing efforts. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores and our in-stock levels are also factors in our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margin and expenses. if we fail to continue to positively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our results of operations could be adversely affected. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margin and profitability could suffer. a substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions in apparel, home d&eacute;cor, seasonal offerings and other merchandise. failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions could lead to lost sales, increased markdowns on inventory and adversely affect our results of operations. all of our stores are located within the united states, making us highly susceptible to deteriorations in u.s. macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence. all of our stores are located within the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. the success of our credit card business is also highly dependent on consumers' willingness to use credit cards over other payment methods, their ability to pay and our ability to anticipate changes to the risk profile of our cardholders when extending credit. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence could negatively impact our business in many ways, including: slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales. reducing gross margins. increasing our expenses, including bad debt expense. 4 table of contents if we do not continually attract, train and retain qualified employees, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain a large and growing number of qualified team members. many of those team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, health care costs and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified team members, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer, and we could experience delays in opening new stores. those factors, together with increased wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. inability to build new stores in suitable locations could slow our growth, and difficulty in building new stores could increase our costs and capital requirements. our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build new stores and expand existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. in addition, for many sites we are dependent on a third party developer's ability to acquire land, obtain financing and secure the necessary zoning changes and permits for a larger project, of which our store may be one component. turmoil in the financial markets has made it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects. local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may impact our ability to find suitable locations and also influence the cost of constructing and expanding our stores. a significant portion of our expected new store development activity is planned to occur within fully developed markets, which is generally a more time-consuming and expensive undertaking than developments in undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. delays in new store openings could have an adverse effect on our sales growth, and increased costs associated with new stores and store expansions could adversely affect our results of operations. interruptions in our supply chain could adversely affect our results. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise shortages that could lead to lost sales. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security or other events that could slow port activities and impact foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and adversely affect our results of operations. product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, experience increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. if we fail to protect the security of personal information about our guests, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our guests. if we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our credit card products, decline to use our pharmacy 5 table of contents services, or stop shopping at our stores altogether. such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. significant legislative changes that impact our relationship with our workforce (none of which is represented by unions as of the end of 2008) could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible legislative changes impacting our relationship with our workforce include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, certain aspects of our business, such as our pharmacy and credit card operations, are more heavily regulated than other areas. changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as banking and consumer credit, medicare reimbursements, privacy and information security, product safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. given the geographic concentration of our stores, natural disasters could adversely affect our results of operations. our three largest states, by total sales, are california, texas and florida, areas where hurricanes and earthquakes are prevalent. such events could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores or distribution centers, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in our effective income tax rate could affect our results of operations. our effective income tax rate is influenced by a number of factors, including statutory tax rates, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and, due to the method by which we economically hedge our deferred compensation liabilities, changes in capital market returns. changes in the tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate. in addition, our effective income tax rate bears an inverse relationship to capital market returns due principally to our use of company-owned life insurance as an investment vehicle to economically hedge our deferred compensation liabilities. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and growth plans. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to raise capital for new store development and other capital expenditures, the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital, and the asset-backed securities markets to partially fund our accounts receivable portfolio. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to meet our capital requirements, fund our working capital needs or lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk results primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating rate, and on our credit card receivables, the majority of which are assessed finance charges at a prime-based floating rate. to manage our net interest margin, we generally maintain levels of floating-rate debt to generate similar changes in net interest expense as finance charge revenues fluctuate. our degree of floating asset and liability matching may vary over time and vary in different interest rate environments. at january 31, 2009, our level of floating-rate credit card assets exceeded our level of net floating-rate debt obligations by approximately $1.3 billion. as a result, based on our balance sheet position at january 31, 2009, the annualized effect of a half percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate credit card assets and marketable securities, would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $7 million. see further description in note 20. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically and in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at january 31, 2009, the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $19 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in the return on pension plan assets would decrease plan assets by $18 million at january 31, 2009. the resulting impact on net pension expense would be calculated consistent with the provisions of sfas no. 87, "employers' accounting for pensions." the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. to protect against declines in interest rates we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year end, we had hedged approximately 50 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in note 14 and note 26, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control our risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. we do not have significant direct exposure to foreign currency rates as all of our stores are located in the united states, and the vast majority of imported merchandise is purchased in u.s. dollars. overall, there have been no material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 23 table of contentsrisk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks. the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our guests with a brand they trust. meeting our guests' expectations requires us to manage various strategic, operational, compliance, and financial risks. set forth below are the most significant risks that we face. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service and marketing efforts. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, our in-stock levels and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margin and expenses. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margin and profitability could suffer. a substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions in apparel, home d&eacute;cor, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions may result in lost sales, spoilage and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations. our continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of the target brand. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target and our team members choose target as a place of employment is the reputation we have built over many years of serving our four primary 4 table of contents constituencies: guests, team members, the communities in which we operate, and shareholders. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand. brand value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents that erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, can have an adverse impact on these perceptions and lead to tangible adverse affects on our business, including consumer boycotts, loss of new store development opportunities, or team member recruiting difficulties. we are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. all of our stores are located within the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. in addition to the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our retail sales, these same considerations impact the success of our credit card segment, as any deterioration can adversely affect cardholders' ability to pay their balances and we may not be able to anticipate and respond to changes in the risk profile of our cardholders when extending credit, resulting in higher bad debt expense. the recent credit card accountability, responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 has significantly restricted our ability to make changes to cardholder terms that are commensurate with changes in the risk profile of our credit card receivables portfolio. demand for consumer credit is also impacted by macroeconomic conditions and other factors, and our performance can also be adversely affected by consumer decisions to use debit cards or other forms of payment. if we do not effectively manage our large and growing workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. with over 350,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain a growing number of qualified team members. many of those team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, health care and other benefit costs and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified team members, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. lack of availability of suitable locations in which to build new stores could slow our growth, and difficulty in executing plans for new stores, expansions and remodels could increase our costs and capital requirements. our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build new stores and expand and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. in addition, for many sites we are dependent on a third party developer's ability to acquire land, obtain financing and secure the necessary zoning changes and permits for a larger project, of which our store may be one component. turmoil in the financial markets has made it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects. local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may affect our ability to find suitable locations and also influence the cost of constructing, expanding and remodeling our stores. a significant portion of our expected new store development activity is planned to occur within fully developed markets, which is generally a more time-consuming and expensive undertaking than developments in undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. 5 table of contents interruptions with our vendors and within our supply chain could adversely affect our results. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, increased tariffs, currency exchange rates, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security or other events that could slow port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, experience increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. if we fail to protect the security of personal information about our guests, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our guests. if we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our credit card products, decline to use our pharmacy services, or stop shopping at our stores altogether. such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. our failure to comply with federal, state or local laws, or changes in these laws could increase our expenses. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. significant legislative changes that affect our relationship with our workforce (which is not represented by unions as of the end of 2009) could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible legislative changes affecting our relationship with our workforce include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as banking and consumer credit, medicare reimbursements, privacy and information security, product safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. given the geographic concentration of our stores, natural disasters could adversely affect our results of operations. our three largest states, by total sales, are california, texas and florida, areas where hurricanes and earthquakes are prevalent. such events could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores or distribution centers, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 6 table of contents changes in our effective income tax rate could affect our results of operations. our effective income tax rate is influenced by a number of factors. changes in the tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate. in addition, our effective income tax rate generally bears an inverse relationship to capital market returns due to the tax-free nature of investment vehicles used to economically hedge our deferred compensation liabilities. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and growth plans. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to raise capital for new store development and other capital expenditures, the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital, and the asset-backed securities markets to partially fund our accounts receivable portfolio. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to meet our capital requirements, fund our working capital needs or lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures. a significant disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process transactions and summarize results. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk results primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating rate, and on our credit card receivables, the majority of which are assessed finance charges at a prime-based floating rate. to manage our net interest margin, we generally maintain levels of floating-rate debt to generate similar changes in net interest expense as finance charge revenues fluctuate. the degree of floating asset and liability matching may vary over time and in different interest rate environments. at january 30, 2010, the amount of floating-rate credit card assets exceeded the amount of net floating-rate debt obligations by approximately $1 billion. as a result, based on our balance sheet position at january 30, 2010, the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate credit card assets and marketable securities, would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $1 million. see further description in note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically, in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at january 30, 2010, the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $9 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in the return on pension plan assets would decrease plan assets by $22 million at january 30, 2010. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. to protect against declines in interest rates we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year end, we had hedged approximately 50 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in note 14 and note 26 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. we do not have significant direct exposure to foreign currency rates as all of our stores are located in the united states, and the vast majority of imported merchandise is purchased in u.s. dollars. overall, there have been no material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 24 table of contentsrisk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks. the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our guests with a brand they trust. meeting our guests' expectations requires us to manage various strategic, operational, compliance, and financial risks. set forth below are the most significant risks that we face. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service and marketing efforts. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, our in-stock levels and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margin and expenses. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margin and profitability could suffer. a substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions in apparel, home d&eacute;cor, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions may result in lost sales, spoilage and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations. our continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of the target brand. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target and our team members choose target as a place of employment is the reputation we have built over many years of serving our four primary 4 table of contents constituencies: guests, team members, the communities in which we operate, and shareholders. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand. brand value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents that erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, can have an adverse impact on these perceptions and lead to tangible adverse affects on our business, including consumer boycotts, loss of new store development opportunities, or team member recruiting difficulties. we are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. all of our stores are located within the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. in addition to the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our retail sales, these same considerations impact the success of our credit card segment, as any deterioration can adversely affect cardholders' ability to pay their balances and we may not be able to anticipate and respond to changes in the risk profile of our cardholders when extending credit, resulting in higher bad debt expense. the recent credit card accountability, responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 has significantly restricted our ability to make changes to cardholder terms that are commensurate with changes in the risk profile of our credit card receivables portfolio. demand for consumer credit is also impacted by macroeconomic conditions and other factors, and our performance can also be adversely affected by consumer decisions to use debit cards or other forms of payment. if we do not effectively manage our large and growing workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. with over 350,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain a growing number of qualified team members. many of those team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, health care and other benefit costs and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified team members, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. lack of availability of suitable locations in which to build new stores could slow our growth, and difficulty in executing plans for new stores, expansions and remodels could increase our costs and capital requirements. our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build new stores and expand and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. in addition, for many sites we are dependent on a third party developer's ability to acquire land, obtain financing and secure the necessary zoning changes and permits for a larger project, of which our store may be one component. turmoil in the financial markets has made it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects. local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may affect our ability to find suitable locations and also influence the cost of constructing, expanding and remodeling our stores. a significant portion of our expected new store development activity is planned to occur within fully developed markets, which is generally a more time-consuming and expensive undertaking than developments in undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. 5 table of contents interruptions with our vendors and within our supply chain could adversely affect our results. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, increased tariffs, currency exchange rates, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security or other events that could slow port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, experience increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. if we fail to protect the security of personal information about our guests, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our guests. if we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our credit card products, decline to use our pharmacy services, or stop shopping at our stores altogether. such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. our failure to comply with federal, state or local laws, or changes in these laws could increase our expenses. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. significant legislative changes that affect our relationship with our workforce (which is not represented by unions as of the end of 2009) could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible legislative changes affecting our relationship with our workforce include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as banking and consumer credit, medicare reimbursements, privacy and information security, product safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. given the geographic concentration of our stores, natural disasters could adversely affect our results of operations. our three largest states, by total sales, are california, texas and florida, areas where hurricanes and earthquakes are prevalent. such events could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores or distribution centers, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 6 table of contents changes in our effective income tax rate could affect our results of operations. our effective income tax rate is influenced by a number of factors. changes in the tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate. in addition, our effective income tax rate generally bears an inverse relationship to capital market returns due to the tax-free nature of investment vehicles used to economically hedge our deferred compensation liabilities. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and growth plans. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to raise capital for new store development and other capital expenditures, the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital, and the asset-backed securities markets to partially fund our accounts receivable portfolio. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to meet our capital requirements, fund our working capital needs or lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures. a significant disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process transactions and summarize results. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk results primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating rate, and on our credit card receivables, the majority of which are assessed finance charges at a prime-based floating rate. to manage our net interest margin, we generally maintain levels of floating-rate debt to generate similar changes in net interest expense as finance charge revenues fluctuate. the degree of floating asset and liability matching may vary over time and in different interest rate environments. at january 30, 2010, the amount of floating-rate credit card assets exceeded the amount of net floating-rate debt obligations by approximately $1 billion. as a result, based on our balance sheet position at january 30, 2010, the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate credit card assets and marketable securities, would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $1 million. see further description in note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically, in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at january 30, 2010, the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $9 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in the return on pension plan assets would decrease plan assets by $22 million at january 30, 2010. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. to protect against declines in interest rates we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year end, we had hedged approximately 50 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in note 14 and note 26 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. we do not have significant direct exposure to foreign currency rates as all of our stores are located in the united states, and the vast majority of imported merchandise is purchased in u.s. dollars. overall, there have been no material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 24 table of contentsrisk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks. the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our guests with a brand they trust. meeting our guests' expectations requires us to manage various strategic, operational, compliance, and financial risks. set forth below are the most significant risks that we face. 4 table of contents if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service and marketing efforts. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, our in-stock levels and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margin and expenses. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margin and profitability could suffer. a substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions in apparel, home d&eacute;cor, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions may result in lost sales, spoilage and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations. our continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of target, including our owned and exclusive brands. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target and our team members choose target as a place of employment is the reputation we have built over many years of serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, the communities in which we operate and shareholders. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents that erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, can have an adverse impact on these perceptions and lead to tangible adverse affects on our business, including consumer boycotts, loss of new store development opportunities, or team member recruiting difficulties. in addition, we sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands, such as market pantry, up &amp; up, target home, merona and mossimo. these brands generally carry higher margins than national brand products, and represent a growing portion of our overall sales, totaling approximately one-third of sales in 2010. if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margin rate could be adversely affected. we are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. all of our stores are located within the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. in addition to the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our retail sales, these same considerations impact the success of our credit card segment. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions can adversely affect cardholders' ability to pay their balances, and we may not be able to fully anticipate and respond to changes in the risk profile of our cardholders when extending credit, resulting in higher bad debt expense. demand for consumer credit is also impacted by consumer choices regarding payment methods, and our performance could be adversely affected by consumer decisions to use debit cards or other forms of payment. 5 table of contents if we do not effectively manage our large and growing workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. with approximately 355,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain a growing number of qualified team members. many of those team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, health care and other benefit costs and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified team members, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. lack of availability of suitable locations in which to build new stores could slow our growth, and difficulty in executing plans for new stores, expansions and remodels could increase our costs and capital requirements. our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build new stores and expand and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. in addition, for many sites we are dependent on a third party developer's ability to acquire land, obtain financing and secure the necessary zoning changes and permits for a larger project, of which our store may be one component. turmoil in the financial markets may make it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects. local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may affect our ability to find suitable locations and also influence the cost of constructing, expanding and remodeling our stores. a significant portion of our expected new store sites are located in fully developed markets, which is generally a more time-consuming and expensive undertaking than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. interruptions with our vendors and within our supply chain could adversely affect our results. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, increased tariffs, currency exchange rates, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security or other events that could slow port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, experience increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. 6 table of contents if we fail to protect the security of personal information about our guests, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our guests. if we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our credit card products, decline to use our pharmacy services, or stop shopping at our stores altogether. such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. our failure to comply with federal, state or local laws, or changes in these laws could increase our expenses. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. significant legislative changes that affect our relationship with our workforce could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible legislative changes affecting our relationship with our workforce include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as banking and consumer credit, medicare reimbursements, privacy and information security, product safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. given the geographic concentration of our stores, natural disasters could adversely affect our results of operations. our three largest states, by total sales, are california, texas and florida, areas where hurricanes and earthquakes are prevalent. such events could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores or distribution centers, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in our effective income tax rate could affect our results of operations. our effective income tax rate is influenced by a number of factors. changes in the tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate. in addition, our effective income tax rate generally bears an inverse relationship to capital market returns due to the tax-free nature of investment vehicles used to economically hedge our deferred compensation liabilities. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and growth plans. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to raise capital for new store development and other capital expenditures, the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital, and the asset-backed securities markets to partially fund our accounts receivable portfolio. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to meet our capital requirements, fund our working capital needs or lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures. 7 table of contents a significant disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our operations. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process guest transactions and summarize results. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in 2011 we expect to migrate our online presence (target.com) from a platform currently operated by amazon, inc. to our own proprietary platform. if this new platform does not function as designed, we may experience a loss of guest confidence, data security breaches, lost sales or be exposed to fraudulent purchases. our announced plan to expand retail operations into canada could adversely affect our financial results. our plan to enter the canadian retail market is our first expansion of retail operations outside of the united states. our ability to convert the leased locations that we acquire from zellers inc. to target stores depends in large measure upon our ability to negotiate acceptable modifications to existing lease terms, remodel existing assets and recruit, hire and retain qualified team members. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to offer a full assortment of merchandise in certain markets. the effective execution of our strategy is also contingent on our ability to design new marketing and promotional programs that positively differentiate us from other retailers in canada. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for canada, our financial performance could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk results primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating rate, and on our credit card receivables, the majority of which are assessed finance charges at a prime based floating rate. to manage our net interest margin, we generally maintain levels of floating-rate debt to generate similar changes in net interest expense as finance charge revenues fluctuate. the degree of floating asset and liability matching may vary over time and in different interest rate environments. at january 29, 2011, the amount of floating-rate credit card assets exceeded the amount of net floating-rate debt obligations by approximately $2 billion. as a result, based on our balance sheet position at january 29, 2011, the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate credit card assets and marketable securities, would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $2 million. see further description in note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically, in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at january 29, 2011, the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $10 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in the return on pension plan assets would decrease plan assets by $25 million at january 29, 2011. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. to protect against declines in interest rates we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged approximately 55 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in note 14 and note 26 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. 29 table of contents we do not currently have significant direct exposure to foreign currency rates as all of our stores are located in the united states, and the vast majority of imported merchandise is purchased in u.s. dollars. our previously described agreement to purchase leasehold interests in canada will expose us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the canadian dollar and the u.s. dollar beginning in 2011. overall, there have been no material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 30 table of contentsrisk factors our business is subject to a variety of risks. the most important of these is our ability to remain relevant to our guests with a brand they trust. meeting our guests' expectations requires us to manage various strategic, operational, compliance, reputational, and financial risks. set forth below are the most significant risks that we face. 4 table of contents if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service and marketing efforts. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, our in-stock levels, the convenience and reliability of our multichannel guest experience and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margin and expenses. our continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of target, including our owned and exclusive brands. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target and our team members choose target as a place of employment is the reputation we have built over many years of serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, the communities in which we operate and shareholders. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents that erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, can have an adverse impact on these perceptions and lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including consumer boycotts, loss of new store development opportunities, or team member recruiting difficulties. in addition, we sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands, such as market pantry, up &amp; up, target home, merona and mossimo. these brands generally carry higher margins than national brand products, and represent a growing portion of our overall sales, totaling approximately one-third of sales in 2011. if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margin rate could be adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully maintain a relevant multichannel experience for our guests, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our guests are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in our stores and online. as part of our multichannel strategy, we offer full and mobile versions of our website (target.com) and applications for mobile phones and tablets. in addition, we use social media as a way to interact with our guests and enhance their shopping experiences. multichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing guest expectations and new developments by our competitors. if we are unable to attract and retain team members or contract third parties with the specialized skills needed to support our multichannel platforms, or are unable to implement improvements to our guest-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, if target.com and our other guest-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of guest confidence, data security breaches, lost sales or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margin and profitability could suffer. a substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions in apparel, home d&eacute;cor, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions may result in lost sales, spoilage and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations. 5 table of contents we are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. all of our stores are currently located within the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. in addition to the impact of macroeconomic conditions on our retail sales, these same considerations impact the success of our u.s. credit card segment. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions can adversely affect cardholders' ability to pay their balances, and we may not be able to fully anticipate and respond to changes in the risk profile of our cardholders when extending credit, resulting in higher bad debt expense. demand for consumer credit is also impacted by consumer choices regarding payment methods, and our performance could be adversely affected by consumer decisions to use third-party debit cards or other forms of payment. if we do not effectively manage our large and growing workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. with approximately 365,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified team members. many of those team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, collective bargaining efforts, health care and other benefit costs and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified team members, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. as of march 15, 2012, none of our team members were working under collective bargaining agreements. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. lack of availability of suitable locations in which to build new stores could slow our growth, and difficulty in executing plans for new stores, expansions and remodels could increase our costs and capital requirements. our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build new stores and expand and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. in addition, for many sites we are dependent on a third party developer's ability to acquire land, obtain financing and secure the necessary zoning changes and permits for a larger project, of which our store may be one component. turmoil in the financial markets may make it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects. local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may affect our ability to find suitable locations and also influence the cost of constructing, expanding and remodeling our stores. a significant portion of our expected new store sites is located in fully developed markets, which is generally a more time-consuming and expensive undertaking than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. interruptions in our supply chain or increased commodity prices and supply chain costs could adversely affect our results. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or 6 table of contents indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security or other events that could slow port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, including labor, fuel, tariffs, and currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on gross margin, expenses and results of operations. failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. if we fail to protect the security of personal information about our guests and team members, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our guests and team members. if we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our credit card products, decline to use our pharmacy services, or stop shopping at our stores or target.com altogether. the loss of confidence from a data security breach involving team members could hurt our reputation and cause team member recruiting and retention challenges. our failure to comply with federal, state or local laws, or changes in these laws could increase our expenses. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. significant legislative changes that affect our relationship with our workforce could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible legislative changes affecting our relationship with our workforce include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as banking and consumer credit, medicare reimbursements, privacy and information security, product safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. weather conditions where our stores are located may impact consumer shopping patterns, which alone or together with natural disasters in areas where our sales are concentrated, could adversely affect our results of operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states, by total sales, are california, texas and florida, areas where hurricanes and earthquakes are more prevalent. those natural disasters could result in 7 table of contents significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores or distribution centers, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes in our effective income tax rate could affect our results of operations. our effective income tax rate is influenced by a number of factors. changes in the tax laws, the interpretation of existing laws, or our failure to sustain our reporting positions on examination could adversely affect our effective tax rate. in addition, our effective income tax rate is influenced inversely by capital market returns due to the tax-free nature of investment vehicles used to economically hedge our deferred compensation liabilities. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and growth plans. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to raise capital for new store development and other capital expenditures, the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital, and the asset-backed securities markets to partially fund our accounts receivable portfolio. our continued access to these markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance and maintaining strong debt ratings. if our credit ratings were lowered, our ability to access the debt markets and our cost of funds for new debt issuances could be adversely impacted. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to meet our capital requirements, fund our working capital needs or lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures. a significant disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our operations. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process guest transactions and summarize results. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our plan to expand retail operations into canada could adversely affect our financial results. our plan to enter the canadian retail market is our first expansion of retail operations outside of the united states. our ability to successfully open the expected number of canadian target stores on schedule depends, in large measure, upon our ability to remodel existing assets, build our supply chain capabilities and technology systems and recruit, hire and retain qualified team members. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to offer the expected assortment of merchandise in certain markets. the effective execution of our strategy is also contingent on our ability to design new marketing programs that positively differentiate us from other retailers in canada. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plan in canada, our financial performance could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk results primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating-rate, and on our credit card receivables, the majority of which are assessed finance charges at a prime-based floating-rate. to manage our net interest margin, we generally maintain levels of floating-rate debt to generate similar changes in net interest expense as finance charge revenues fluctuate. the degree of floating asset and liability matching may vary over time and in different interest rate environments. at january 28, 2012, the amount of floating-rate credit card assets exceeded the amount of net floating-rate debt obligations by approximately $2 billion. as a result, based on our balance sheet position at january 28, 2012, the annualized effect of a 0.1 percentage point decrease in floating interest rates on our floating rate debt obligations, net of our floating rate credit card assets and short-term investments, would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by approximately $2 million. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 19 and 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically, in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at january 28, 2012, the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $9 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point decrease in the return on pension plan assets would decrease plan assets by $29 million at january 28, 2012. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. to protect against declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 35 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in note 14 and note 26 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. our investment in canada during 2011 has exposed us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the canadian dollar and the u.s. dollar that we were not exposed to in previous years. similar foreign currency risk will exist as new target stores are opened in canada and inventory is purchased in both u.s. and canadian dollars. during 2011, gains and losses due to fluctuations in exchange rates were not significant. currently, we do not have significant direct exposure to other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as all of our stores are located in the united states, and the vast majority of imported merchandise is purchased in u.s. dollars. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 28 table of contentsrisk factors our business is subject to many risks. set forth below are the most significant risks that we face. if we are unable to positively differentiate ourselves from other retailers, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the retail business is highly competitive. in the past we have been able to compete successfully by differentiating our guests' shopping experience by creating an attractive value proposition through a careful combination of price, merchandise assortment, convenience, guest service, loyalty programs and marketing efforts. guest perceptions regarding the cleanliness and safety of our stores, our in-stock levels and other factors also affect our ability to compete. no single competitive factor is dominant, and actions by our competitors on any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, gross margins and expenses. we sell many products under our owned and exclusive brands discussed on page 2. these brands are an important part of our business because they differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than national brand products and represent a significant portion of our overall sales. if one or more of these brands experiences a loss of consumer acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margins could be adversely affected. the continuing migration and evolution of retailing to online and mobile channels has increased our challenges in differentiating ourselves from other retailers. in particular, consumers are able to quickly and conveniently comparison shop with digital tools, which can lead to decisions based solely on price. we have been working with our vendors to offer unique and distinctive merchandise, and encouraging our guests to shop with confidence with our price match policy. failure to effectively execute in these efforts, actions by our competitors in response to these efforts or failure of our vendors to manage their own channels and content could hurt our ability to differentiate ourselves from other retailers and, as a result, have an adverse effect on sales, gross margins and expenses. our continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of target which, if eroded, could adversely affect our business and our relationships with our guests and team members. we believe that one of the reasons our guests prefer to shop at target and our team members choose target as a place of employment is the reputation we have built over many years for serving our four primary constituencies: guests, team members, the communities in which we operate and shareholders. to be successful in the future, we must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of target's reputation. reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities. while reputations may take decades to build, even isolated incidents can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations or litigation. those types of incidents could have an adverse impact on perceptions and lead to tangible adverse effects on our business, including consumer boycotts, lost sales, loss of new store development opportunities, or team member retention and recruiting difficulties. if we are unable to successfully develop and maintain a relevant and reliable multichannel experience for our guests, our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with guests across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others). our guests are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in our stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary about all aspects of our business. we currently provide full and mobile versions of our website (target.com), applications for mobile phones and tablets and interact with our guests through social media. multichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing guest expectations, and new developments and technology investments by our competitors. if we are unable to attract and retain team members or contract with third parties having the 5 table of contents specialized skills needed to support our multichannel efforts, implement improvements to our guest-facing technology in a timely manner, or provide a convenient and consistent experience for our guests regardless of the ultimate sales channel, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, if target.com and our other guest-facing technology systems do not reliably function as designed, we may experience a loss of guest confidence, data security breaches, lost sales or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, which, if significant, could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. if we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margins and profitability could suffer. a substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions and effectively manage our inventory in a broad range of merchandise categories, including apparel, home d&eacute;cor, seasonal offerings, food and other merchandise. failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions may result in lost sales, spoilage and increased inventory markdowns, which would lead to a deterioration in our results of operations by hurting our sales, gross margins and profitability. our earnings are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the united states. most of our stores and all of our digital sales are in the united states, making our results highly dependent on u.s. consumer confidence and the health of the u.s. economy. in addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in five states: california, texas, florida, minnesota and illinois, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. deterioration in macroeconomic conditions, consumer confidence and guest financial situations could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. these same considerations impact the success of our credit card program. even though we no longer own a consumer credit card receivables portfolio, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with td bank group (td). deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in us receiving lower profit-sharing payments. if we do not effectively manage our large and growing workforce, our labor costs and results of operations could be adversely affected. with approximately 361,000 team members, our workforce costs represent our largest operating expense, and our business is dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified team members. many of those team members are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high turnover rates. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, collective bargaining efforts, health care and other benefit costs and changing demographics. if we are unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of qualified team members, our operations, guest service levels and support functions could suffer. those factors, together with increasing wage and benefit costs, could adversely affect our results of operations. as of march 20, 2013, none of our team members were working under collective bargaining agreements. we are periodically subject to labor organizing efforts. if we become subject to one or more collective bargaining agreements in the future, it could adversely affect our labor costs and how we operate our business. lack of availability of suitable locations in which to build new stores could slow our growth, and difficulty in executing plans for new stores, expansions and remodels could increase our costs and capital requirements. our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build new stores and expand and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. we compete with other retailers and 6 table of contents businesses for suitable locations for our stores. in addition, for many sites we are dependent on a third party developer's ability to acquire land, obtain financing and secure the necessary zoning changes and permits for a larger project, of which our store may be one component. turmoil in the financial markets may make it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects. local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may affect our ability to find suitable locations and also influence the cost of constructing, expanding and remodeling our stores. a significant portion of our expected new store sites is located in fully developed markets, which is generally a more time-consuming and expensive undertaking than expansion into undeveloped suburban and ex-urban markets. interruptions in our supply chain or increased commodity prices and supply chain costs could adversely affect our gross margins, expenses and results of operations. we are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. if a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise out-of-stocks that could lead to lost sales. in addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the united states, with china as our single largest source. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security, weather conditions, natural disasters or other events that could slow port activities and affect foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and/or adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, changes in the costs of procuring commodities used in our merchandise or the costs related to our supply chain, including labor, fuel, tariffs, and currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on gross margins, expenses and results of operations. failure to address product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. if our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children's products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests' expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. all of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. in addition, negative guest perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our guests to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. in those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our guests. if our efforts to protect the security of personal information about our guests and team members are unsuccessful, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our reputation could suffer. the nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our guests and team members. we have a program in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. to date, all incidents we have experienced have been insignificant. if we experience a significant data security breach or fail to detect and appropriately respond to a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. in addition, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of redcards, decline to use our pharmacy services, or stop shopping with us altogether. the loss of confidence from a significant data security breach involving team members could hurt our reputation, cause team member recruiting and retention challenges, increase our labor costs and affect how we operate our business. 7 table of contents our failure to comply with federal, state or local laws, or changes in these laws could increase our costs, reduce our margins and lower our sales. our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. significant legislative changes that affect our relationship with our workforce could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. examples of possible legislative changes affecting our relationship with our workforce include changes to an employer's obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed, minimum wage requirements, and health care mandates. in addition, changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as banking and consumer credit, medicare reimbursements, privacy and information security, product safety, supply chain transparency or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase without an ability to pass through any increased expenses through higher prices. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs, reducing our margins and lowering our sales. weather conditions where our stores are located may impact consumer shopping patterns, which alone or together with natural disasters, particularly in areas where our sales are concentrated, could adversely affect our results of operations. uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions can affect consumer shopping patterns, particularly in apparel and seasonal items, which could lead to lost sales or greater than expected markdowns and adversely affect our short-term results of operations. in addition, our three largest states, by total sales, are california, texas and florida, areas where hurricanes and earthquakes are more prevalent. natural disasters in those states or in other areas where our sales are concentrated could result in significant physical damage to or closure of one or more of our stores or distribution centers, and cause delays in the distribution of merchandise from our vendors to our distribution centers and stores, which could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs and lowering our sales. changes in our effective income tax rate could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. our effective income tax rate is influenced by a number of factors, including changes in tax law, tax treaties, interpretation of existing laws, and our ability to sustain our reporting positions on examination. changes in any of those factors could change our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations. in addition, the expansion of our retail store operations outside of the united states may cause greater volatility in our effective tax rate. if we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our financial position, growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. we are dependent on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund our operations and growth plans. in particular, we have historically relied on the public debt markets to raise capital for new store development and other capital expenditures and the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities to fund seasonal needs for working capital. our continued access to these markets depends on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance and maintaining strong debt ratings. if our credit ratings were lowered, our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds and other terms for new debt issuances could be adversely impacted. each of the credit rating agencies reviews its rating periodically, and there is no guarantee our current credit rating will remain the same. in addition, we use a variety of derivative products to manage our exposure to market risk, principally interest rate and equity price fluctuations. disruptions or turmoil in the financial markets could reduce our ability to meet our capital requirements or fund our working capital needs, and lead to losses on derivative positions resulting from counterparty failures, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 8 table of contents a significant disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our operations. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process guest transactions, service redcard accounts and summarize and analyze results. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses and malicious attacks, security breaches and catastrophic events. if our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process guest transactions, and encounter a loss of guest confidence which could adversely affect our results of operations. if we do not effectively execute our plan to expand retail store operations into canada, our financial results could be adversely affected. our 2013 entry into the canadian retail market is our first retail store expansion outside of the united states. our ability to successfully open the expected number of canadian target stores on schedule depends, in large measure, upon our ability to remodel existing assets, build our supply chain capabilities and technology systems and recruit, hire and retain qualified team members. in addition, our ability to offer the expected assortment of merchandise in certain markets may be impacted by the availability of local vendors of certain types of goods. the effective execution of our canadian retail store expansion is also contingent on our ability to design new marketing programs that positively differentiate us from other retailers in canada, and achieve market acceptance by canadian guests. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plan in canada, our financial performance could be adversely affected. a disruption in relationships with third parties who provide us services in connection with certain aspects of our business could adversely affect our operations. we rely on third parties to support a variety of business functions, including our canadian supply chain, portions of our technology systems, multichannel platforms and distribution network, and extensions of credit for our 5% redcard rewards loyalty program. if we are unable to contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed to support those strategies or integrate their products and services with our business, or if those third parties fail to meet our performance standards and expectations, our reputation, sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, we could face increased costs associated with finding replacement providers or hiring new team members to provide these services in-house. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at february 2, 2013, our exposure to market risk was primarily from interest rate changes on our debt obligations, some of which are at a libor-plus floating-rate, and on our credit card receivables, the majority of which are assessed finance charges at a prime-based floating-rate. historically, to manage our net interest margin, we generally maintained levels of floating-rate debt to generate similar changes in net interest expense as finance charge revenues fluctuated. the degree of floating asset and liability matching varied over time and in different interest rate environments. at february 2, 2013, the amount of floating-rate credit card assets exceeded the amount of net floating-rate debt obligations by approximately $1 billion. see further description of our debt and derivative instruments in notes 20 and 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. as a result of the sale of our consumer credit card portfolio, funding risk was transferred to td bank group. following the sale, our interest rate exposure will primarily be due to the extent by which our floating rate debt obligations differ from our floating rate short term investments. in general, we expect our floating rate debt to exceed our floating rate short term investments over time but that may vary in different interest rate environments. we record our general liability and workers' compensation liabilities at net present value; therefore, these liabilities fluctuate with changes in interest rates. periodically, in certain interest rate environments, we economically hedge a portion of our exposure to these interest rate changes by entering into interest rate forward contracts that partially mitigate the effects of interest rate changes. based on our balance sheet position at february 2, 2013, the annualized effect of a 0.5 percentage point decrease in interest rates would be to decrease earnings before income taxes by $9 million. in addition, we are exposed to market return fluctuations on our qualified defined benefit pension plans. a 0.5 percentage point decrease to the weighted average discount rate would increase annual expense by $28 million. the value of our pension liabilities is inversely related to changes in interest rates. to protect against 29 table of contents declines in interest rates, we hold high-quality, long-duration bonds and interest rate swaps in our pension plan trust. at year-end, we had hedged 36 percent of the interest rate exposure of our funded status. as more fully described in note 15 and note 27 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, we are exposed to market returns on accumulated team member balances in our nonqualified, unfunded deferred compensation plans. we control the risk of offering the nonqualified plans by making investments in life insurance contracts and prepaid forward contracts on our own common stock that offset a substantial portion of our economic exposure to the returns on these plans. the annualized effect of a one percentage point change in market returns on our nonqualified defined contribution plans (inclusive of the effect of the investment vehicles used to manage our economic exposure) would not be significant. we are exposed to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we will be further exposed to this risk as we commence canadian operations during 2013. during 2012 and 2011, gains and losses due to fluctuations in exchange rates were not significant as all stores were located in the united states, and the vast majority of imported merchandise was purchased in u.s. dollars. there have been no other material changes in our primary risk exposures or management of market risks since the prior year. 30 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk, page 21; and derivatives, page 32, of target 2004 annual report to shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.risk factors. for discussion of risk factors and cautionary statements relating to forward-looking information, see exhibit (99)c to this form 10-k, which is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk, page 21; and note 21, interest rate swaps, page 33, of target 2005 annual report to shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.