risk factors 22 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 82 through 86 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 136 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 20 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 71 through 75 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 123 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 20 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 71 through 76 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 126 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 19 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 70 through 76 of this annual report on form 10-k. - 19 - quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 126 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 19 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 62 through 65 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 112 of this annual report on form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk while we currently have market risk sensitive instruments related to interest rates, we have no significant exposure to changing interest rates on our long-term debt because the interest rates are fixed on the majority of our long-term debt. we had approximately $730 million of outstanding floating-rate borrowings at may 31, 2004. we have not employed interest rate hedging to mitigate the risks with respect to these borrowings. a hypothetical 10% increase in the interest rate on our outstanding floating-rate borrowings would not have a material effect on our results of operations. as disclosed in note 6 to the accompanying audited financial statements, we had outstanding fixed-rate, long-term debt (exclusive of capital leases) of $2.3 billion at may 31, 2004 and $1.6 billion at may 31, 2003. market risk for fixed-rate, long-term debt is estimated as the potential decrease in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and amounts to approximately $49 million as of may 31, 2004 and $39 million as of may 31, 2003. the underlying fair values of our long-term debt were estimated based on quoted market prices or on the current rates offered for debt with similar terms and maturities. while we are a global provider of transportation, e-commerce and business services, the substantial majority of our transactions are denominated in u.s. dollars. the distribution of our foreign currency denominated transactions is such that currency declines in some areas of the world are often offset by currency gains of equal magnitude in other areas of the world. the principal foreign currency exchange rate risks to which we are exposed are in the japanese yen, taiwan dollar, canadian dollar and euro. during 2004 and 2003, we believe operating income was positively impacted due to foreign currency fluctuations. however, favorable foreign currency fluctuations also may have had an offsetting impact on the price we obtained or the demand for our services. at may 31, 2004, the result of a uniform 10% strengthening in the value of the dollar relative to the currencies in which our transactions are denominated would result in a decrease in operating income of approximately $79 million for 2005 (the comparable amount in the prior year was approximately $36 million). this increase is primarily due to the strong growth of our international operations. this theoretical calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the u.s. dollar. in practice, our experience is that exchange rates in the principal foreign markets where we have foreign currency denominated transactions tend to have offsetting fluctuations. therefore, the calculation above is not indicative of our actual experience in foreign currency transactions. in addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates, which are a changed dollar value of the resulting reported operating results, changes in exchange rates also affect the volume of sales or the foreign currency sales price as competitors' services become more or less attractive. the sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not factor in a potential change in sales levels or local currency prices. we have market risk for changes in the price of jet and diesel fuel; however, this risk is largely mitigated by revenue from our fuel surcharges. in 2002, we implemented new indices for calculating u.s. domestic fuel surcharges, which more closely link the fuel surcharges to prevailing market prices for fuel. in 2003, we implemented this methodology for determining a fuel surcharge on international shipments as well. therefore, a hypothetical 10% change in the price of fuel would not be expected to materially affect our earnings. however, our fuel surcharges have a lag that exists before they are adjusted for changes in jet fuel prices and fuel prices can fluctuate within certain ranges before resulting in a change in our fuel surcharges. therefore, our operating income may be affected should the spot price of fuel suddenly change by a significant amount or change by amounts that do not result in a change in our fuel surcharges. we do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 105 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 20 risk f actors we present information about our risk factors on pages 65 through 68 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 107 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 21 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 71 through 76 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 123 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 23 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 76 through 81 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 132 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 21 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 72 through 76 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 129 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 23 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 81 through 86 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 142 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 25 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 81 through 87 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 147 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 21 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 77 through 81 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 131 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 21 ris k factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 84 through 91 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 142 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 21 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 85 through 95 of this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 148 of this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors 23 risk factors we present information about our risk factors on pages 88 through 99 of this annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative information about market risk is presented on page 148 of this annual report.