risk factors 25 cautionary statement for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 32 risk factors efforts by third party payers, including the government, to reduce utilization and pricing could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and profitability. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, as well as private payers and larger employers have taken steps and may continue to take steps to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services, including clinical laboratory services. by law an adjustment to the medicare national fee schedule for clinical laboratory services based on the consumer price index cannot occur before january 1, 2009. congressional budget reconciliation efforts could result in further reductions in medicare and/or medicaid expenditures for laboratory services in the future. in addition, by law cms is required to conduct two demonstration projects of competitive bidding for clinical laboratory services. if competitive bidding were implemented on a regional or national basis for clinical laboratory testing, it could materially adversely affect the clinical laboratory testing industry and us. in september 2003, the oig published a proposed regulation that would authorize the oig to exclude a provider for submitting claims to medicare that contain charges that are substantially in excess of the provider usual charges. if this regulation is adopted as proposed, it could potentially reduce the amounts we bill and collect from medicare and other federal payers, affect the fees we charge to other payers, or subject us to penalties for non-compliance, and could also be costly for us to administer. for a more detailed description of the developments in government regulations, see business - regulation of reimbursement for clinical laboratory services . the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare insurers, resulting in fewer but larger insurers with significant bargaining power in negotiating fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories. these healthcare insurers, as well as independent physician associations, demand that clinical laboratory service providers accept discounted fee structures, or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. historically, healthcare insurers, which had limited their network of laboratory service providers, encouraged their members, and sometimes offered incentives, to utilize only contracted providers. in cases where members choose to use a non-contracted provider due to service quality or convenience, the non-contracted provider would be reimbursed at rates considered reasonable and customary . in addition, patients who use a non-contracted provider may have a higher co-insurance responsibility, which may result in physicians referring testing to contracted providers to minimize the expense to their patients. contracted rates are generally lower than reasonable and customary rates because of the potential for greater volume as a contracted provider. however, a non-contracted laboratory service provider with quality and service preferred by physicians and patients to that of contracted providers, could potentially realize greater profits than if it was a contracted provider, provided that physicians and patients continue to have choice in selecting their provider. physicians requiring testing for patients are the primary referral source of our clinical laboratory testing volume, and often refer work to us as a non-contracted provider. recent experience indicates that at least one large healthcare insurer, unh, is looking to restrict or eliminate the choice of physicians, and in turn their patients, by threatening to impose financial penalties on physicians for referring patients to non-contracted laboratory service providers. if this approach is successful in influencing physicians to no longer use non-contracted laboratories, it could make it substantially more difficult for a laboratory service provider to sufficiently differentiate itself based on quality and service in order to profitably operate as a non-contracted provider, could lead to other healthcare insurers using similar tactics, and could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. see business recent changes in payer relationships and business payers and customers healthcare insurers . we expect efforts to impose reduced reimbursements and more stringent cost controls by government and other payers to continue. these efforts, as well as changes in payer mix, including an increase in the percentage of patients covered by capitated payment arrangements, could negatively impact our net revenues. if we cannot offset additional reductions in the payments we receive for our services by reducing costs, increasing test volume and/or introducing new procedures, our net revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected. if we fail to comply with extensive laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations. we believe that, based on our experience with government settlements and public announcements by various government officials, the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare fraud. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us, including those relating to billing and reimbursement of tests and those relating to relationships with physicians and hospitals, are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could damage our reputation and adversely affect important business relationships with third parties. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, 25 we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third party claims, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. during the mid-1990s, quest diagnostics and sbcl settled significant government claims that primarily involved industry-wide billing and marketing practices that both companies believed to be lawful. the federal or state governments may bring additional claims based on new theories as to our practices that we believe to be in compliance with law. the federal government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs, which represented approximately 17% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2006. we understand that there may be pending qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistle blowers as to which we have not been provided with a copy of the complaint and accordingly cannot determine the extent of any potential liability. we are also aware of certain pending lawsuits related to billing practices filed under the qui tam provisions of the civil false claims act and other federal and state statutes. these lawsuits include class action and individual claims by patients arising out of the company billing practices. in addition, we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount. a pending investigation by the united states attorney office for the eastern district of new york regarding the operations of nid could lead to civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties and additional liabilities from third party claims against us. we have also received other subpoenas seeking production of business and financial records regarding arrangements with government and private payers. for additional details regarding these matters, please see business government investigations and related claims . several of these proceedings discussed above are in their early stages of development and involve responding to and cooperating with various government investigations and related subpoenas. while the company believes that at least a reasonable possibility exists that losses may have been incurred, based on the nature and status of the investigations, the losses are either currently not probable or cannot be reasonably estimated. although management cannot predict the outcome of such matters, management does not anticipate that the ultimate outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but may be material to our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined or paid. as an integral part of our compliance program, we investigate all reported or suspected failures to comply with federal and state healthcare reimbursement requirements. any non-compliance that results in medicare or medicaid overpayments is reported to the government and reimbursed by us. as a result of these efforts, we have periodically identified and reported overpayments. while we have reimbursed these overpayments and have taken corrective action where appropriate, we cannot assure investors that in each instance the government will necessarily accept these actions as sufficient. failure to timely or accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and bad debt expense. billing for laboratory services is extremely complicated. see business- billing . depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we must bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further complexity to the billing process. see business- regulation of reimbursement for clinical laboratory services . changes in laws and regulations could negatively impact our ability to bill our clients or increase our costs. cms establishes procedures and continuously evaluates and implements changes to the reimbursement process. we believe that much of our bad debt expense, which was 3.9% of our net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2006, is primarily the result of missing or incorrect billing information on requisitions received from healthcare providers and the failure of patients to pay the portion of the receivable that is their responsibility, rather than credit related issues. missing or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. failure to timely or correctly bill may lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing federal healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and 26 authorizations necessary to operate our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. in addition to the investigations described in business government investigations and related claims , we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers regarding billing issues. see business- regulation of clinical laboratory operations and intellectual property rights . some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we do not have insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any liability with respect to such claims. see business- insurance . although we cannot predict the outcome of such proceedings or any claims made against us, we do not anticipate that the ultimate outcome of the various proceedings or claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but may be material to our results of operations and cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined or paid. failure in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions or failures to adapt existing systems to proposed health information technology (hit) standards, could significantly increase turnaround time, otherwise disrupt our operations, or lead to increased competition by other providers of laboratory services, all of which could reduce our customer base and result in lost net revenues. information systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including laboratory testing, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology, or it, systems. it systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our it systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to process test orders, deliver test results or perform tests in a timely manner could adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and net revenues. we are in the process of implementing a standard laboratory information system and a standard billing system, which we expect will take several years to complete. see business information systems . failure to properly implement this standardization process could materially adversely affect our business. during system conversions of this type, workflow is reengineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. in addition, the implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to be managed carefully. in addition, public and private initiatives to create hit standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the electronic exchange of clinical information, including laboratory results, could require costly modifications to our existing it systems. see business healthcare information technology. while we do not expect hit standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate time to comply, failure or delay in implementing hit or clinical coding standards, interoperability standards, or in adopting and incorporating standardized clinical coding systems in our it systems, could result in a loss of customers, a loss of business opportunities, and could adversely affect our reputation. integrating our operations with business we acquire may be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse effect on our business. we are in the process of integrating into our company the operations of several companies that we have acquired during the past eighteen months, including labone and focus diagnostics. see business recent acquisitions . we expect to continue to selectively evaluate potential acquisitions of domestic clinical laboratories that can be integrated into our existing laboratories. we are actively exploring opportunities in the area of near patient testing and intend to capitalize on this trend to augment our laboratory testing business. additionally, we see opportunities to bring our experience and expertise in diagnostic testing to international markets, particularly developing countries where the testing markets are highly fragmented and less mature. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that previously operated independently and has different systems, processes and cultures. the process of combining such companies may be disruptive to both of our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: 27 loss of key customers or employees; failure to maintain the quality of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. in addition, because most of our clinical laboratory testing is performed under arrangements that are terminable at will or on short notice, any such interruption of or deterioration in our services may result in a customer decision to stop using us for clinical laboratory testing. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of focus diagnostics or the operations of other companies or business we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or a timely manner. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2006, we had approximately 1.56 billion of debt outstanding, with 500 million of available capacity under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. except for outstanding letters of credit and operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further details related to our outstanding debt. set forth in the table below, for each of the next five years, is the aggregate amount of scheduled principal, estimated interest and total payments with respect to our debt outstanding as of december 31, 2006, including capital leases, assuming that maturing debt is refinanced for purposes of estimating interest. twelve months ended december 31, principal interest total (in thousands) 2007 316,870 91,953 408,823 2008 61,827 89,427 151,254 2009 1,826 86,898 88,724 2010 400,010 87,185 487,195 2011 275,000 77,569 352,569 on january 31, 2007, in connection with the acquisition of hemocue, we borrowed 450 million under a one-year term loan. see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. our debt portfolio is sensitive to changes in interest rates. as of december 31, 2006, we had 375 million of floating rate debt. based on our net exposure to interest rate changes, an assumed 10% change in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness (representing approximately 54 basis points) would impact annual net interest expense by approximately 2 million, assuming no changes to the debt outstanding at december 31, 2006. in addition, any future borrowings by us under the unsecured revolving credit facility, the secured receivables credit facility or the issuance of other floating rate debt will expose us to additional interest rate risk. interest rates on our unsecured revolving credit facility, term loan and secured receivables credit facility are also subject to a pricing schedule that fluctuates based on changes in our credit rating. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor and moody investors service. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan would increase. changes in our credit ratings do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. 28 we, or our subsidiaries, may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in this case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. failure to provide a higher quality of service than that of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and profitability. while there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical laboratory testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of laboratory providers hospital-affiliated laboratories, other independent clinical laboratories and physician-office laboratories. hospitals generally maintain an on-site laboratory to perform testing on their patients. in addition, many hospitals compete with independent clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. most physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their medical practice and many hospitals leverage their relationships with community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital laboratory. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices generally require the physicians to refer tests to the hospital laboratory. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality of service. our failure to provide service superior to hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and profitability. compliance with the hipaa security regulations and privacy regulations may increase our costs. the hipaa privacy and security regulations, which became fully effective in april 2003 and april 2005, respectively, establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the uses and disclosures of protected health information by health plans, healthcare providers and healthcare clearinghouses, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of protected health information. see business- privacy and security of health information; standard transactions. we have implemented practices to meet the requirements of the hipaa privacy and security regulations, as required by law. the privacy regulations establish a floor and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent. therefore, we are required to comply with both federal privacy regulations and varying state privacy laws. in addition, for healthcare data transfers from other countries relating to citizens of those countries, we must comply with the laws of those other countries. the federal privacy regulations restrict our ability to use or disclose patient-identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined by hipaa), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. the privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of protected health information, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. although the hipaa statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of damages, we also could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. we are actively in the process of completing systems planning for compliance with hipaa regulations on adoption of npi, which becomes effective on may 23, 2007. see business- privacy and security of health information; standard transactions . we have obtained npis for all of our laboratory facilities and we have updated our billing systems so that we can report our npis to medicare, medicaid and other commercial health plans. we are in the process of obtaining npi information from our physician clients, and expect that the process will continue up to and beyond may 23, 2007. as of february 27, 2007, cms reports that approximately 60% of physicians have obtained npis. there is industry concern with the number of physicians and other health providers who have not yet obtained npis, and various groups have requested that cms consider adopting a contingency period of one year or more for compliance with npi regulations. while cms has adopted similar contingency periods for electronic claim and remittance transactions in the past, there is no indication yet that they will do the same for npi. we will continue efforts to obtain available referring physician npis, and expect that most of the available npis will be obtained prior to may 23, 2007. we could face a disruption in reimbursement with respect to tests referred by clients that do not timely receive npis. compliance with all of the hipaa regulations, including the regulations for electronic transactions and npis, requires ongoing resources from all healthcare organizations, not just quest diagnostics. while we believe our total costs to comply with hipaa will not be material to our operations or cash flows, new standard transactions and additional customer requirements resulting from different interpretations of the current regulations could impose additional costs on us. 29 fda regulation of laboratory-developed tests, analyte specific reagents, or genetic testing could lead to increased costs and delays in introducing new genetic tests. the fda has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used to perform diagnostic testing by clinical laboratories. in the past, the fda also claimed regulatory authority over laboratory-developed tests, but has stated that it is exercising enforcement discretion in not regulating most laboratory- developed tests performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. on september 7, 2006, the fda published two draft guidance documents. the first draft guidance document describes various manufacturer practices and products that the fda believes would take certain reagent products out of the class i (exempt) analyte specific reagent (asr) category. the asr draft guidance, if adopted as proposed, could restrict laboratory access to certain products now available, if in response to its adoption, manufacturers voluntarily withdraw their products from the market. the other draft guidance document describes certain laboratory-developed tests that the fda intends to regulate as in vitro diagnostic test systems (i.e., as medical devices). the fda calls this category of laboratory-developed tests in vitro diagnostic multivariate index assays (ivdmias). the ivdmia draft guidance, if adopted as published, would extend fda oversight over laboratories that offer certain laboratory-developed tests. many of the esoteric tests that we develop internally are first offered as laboratory-developed tests. fda regulation of laboratory-developed tests or increased regulation of the various medical devices used in laboratory-developed testing would lead to increased regulatory burden and additional costs and delays in introducing new tests, including genetic tests. fda has extended to march 5, 2007 its original deadline for public response to the draft guidance documents. failure to develop, or acquire, licenses for new or improved testing technologies, or the development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, could negatively impact our testing volume and net revenues. the diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. our success in remaining a leading innovator in the diagnostic testing industry by continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements and such arrangements will yield commercially successful diagnostic tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to license new or improved technologies to expand our esoteric testing business, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our competition and our testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely affected. see business- intellectual property rights . advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of an independent clinical laboratory such as (1) near patient tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by physicians in their offices. development of such technology and its use by our customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and negatively impact our net revenues. clia regulates virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring they be certified by the federal government and comply with various operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that their clinical laboratory testing services are accurate, reliable and timely. the cost of compliance with clia makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices. manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point of care laboratory equipment to physicians and by selling to both physicians and patients test kits approved by the fda for home use. diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under clia as well as by patients in their homes. the fda has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories and the secretary of hhs has delegated to the fda the authority to determine whether particular tests (waived tests) are simple and have an insignificant risk of an erroneous result under clia. however, we believe our acquisitions of hemocue, focus diagnostics and enterix, will help position us to service this market for physicians and hospitals. see business recent acquisitions . our growing international operations expose us to certain risks inherent in conducting business in international markets. our acquisition of hemocue in january 2007 has increased our international operations and, consequently, our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include, but are not limited to, changes in the local economic environment, political instability, social changes, exchange controls, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights, developments in foreign regulation as well as potentially longer payment and collection cycles. we will increasingly provide services in one country from a base in another and move 30 products from one country to another. as a result, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in import/export controls and customs and tax regimes that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results. in addition, the revenue we earn and the expenses we incur in our international operations are primarily denominated in foreign currencies. the value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the u.s. dollar, and as a result, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. we may incur substantial expense as a result of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic or regulatory environment in the regions where we do business. acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources, implement our controls and systems in new markets and overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. while some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. nevertheless, we expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or otherwise, which would increase these risks. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek laboratory testing services. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens or to receive materials from our suppliers. our organizational documents and other agreements contain restrictions that might prevent a takeover or change in management. provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws might have the effect of discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting a takeover on terms that some shareholders might favor, reducing the opportunity for shareholders to sell shares at a premium over then-prevailing market prices and prevent or frustrate attempts to replace or remove current management. these provisions include: a requirement that the board of directors be classified; the authorization of a blank check preferred stock to be issued at the discretion of the board of directors; and a requirement that we receive advance notice of shareholder nominees for director and shareholder proposals. 31 cautionary statement for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may , believe , will , expect , project , estimate , anticipate , plan or continue . these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could significantly cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995, or the litigation reform act, provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective information about their companies without fear of litigation. we would like to take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the litigation reform act in connection with the forward-looking statements included in this document. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition, including increased pricing pressure, competition from hospitals for testing for non-patients and competition from physicians. see business competition . (b) impact of changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to capitated fee arrangements. see business payers and customers healthcare insurers . (c) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee for service payments by healthcare insurers or other payers and threats by third party payers against physicians and patients that effectively eliminate their choice to use an out-of-network provider under ppo and similar plans. see business- recent changes in payer relationships , business regulation of reimbursement for clinical laboratory services and business payers and customers healthcare insurers . (d) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests and the possibility that third party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) the policy of cms to limit medicare reimbursement for tests contained in automated chemistry panels to the amount that would have been paid if only the covered tests, determined on the basis of demonstrable medical necessity , had been ordered; (3) continued inconsistent practices among the different local carriers administering medicare; (4) inability to obtain from patients an advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (5) the potential need to monitor charges and lower certain fees to medicare to comply with the oig proposed rule pertaining to exclusion of providers for submitting claims to medicare containing charges that are substantially in excess of the provider usual charges; and (6) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to healthcare insurers. see business - recent changes in payer relationships , business - regulation of reimbursement for clinical laboratory services and business - billing . (e) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular significant monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or 32 exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. see business government investigations and related claims . (f) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses, and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical and management personnel. see business corporate strategy and growth opportunities growth . (g) inability to obtain professional liability or other insurance coverage or a material increase in premiums for such coverage or reserves for self-insurance. see business insurance . (h) denial of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. see business regulation of clinical laboratory operations . (i) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, including regulation by the fda. (j) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. see business corporate strategy and growth opportunities growth . (k) inability to achieve additional benefits from our six sigma and standardization initiatives. (l) adverse publicity and news coverage about the clinical laboratory industry or us. (m) computer or other it system failures that affect our ability to perform tests, report test results or properly bill customers, including potential failures resulting from the standardization of our it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. see business information systems and business billing . (n) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of laboratory medicine, including technology changes that lead to the development of more cost-effective tests such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. see business competition and business regulation of clinical laboratory operations . (o) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. (p) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (q) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (r) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights protections of our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (s) impact of any national healthcare information network and the adoption of standards for health information technology interoperability that are incompatible with existing software and hardware infrastructure requiring widespread replacement of systems and/or software. (t) the impact of the privacy regulations, security regulations and standards for electronic transactions regulations issued under hipaa and any applicable state laws or regulations. see business privacy and security of health information; standard transactions . 33 (u) inability to promptly or properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. see business billing . (v) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor and moody investor services causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (w) inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or more of our key senior management personnel. (x) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38risk factors 19 cautionary factors that may affect future results 27 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 27. 19 the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and profitability. while there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical test providers: hospital-affiliated laboratories, other independent clinical laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with independent clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. most physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their medical practice and hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital laboratory. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices generally require the physicians to refer tests to the hospital laboratory. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality of service. our failure to provide a broad test menu or service superior to hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and our net revenues and profitability could be damaged. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and pricing of healthcare services, including clinical test services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and pricing for clinical testing services. from time to time, congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also are subject to congressional mandates, such as a mandate for medicare to conduct a demonstration project to determine whether competitive bidding for clinical test services can reduce costs without adversely impacting quality and beneficiary access to services. we also provide physician services which are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. cms changes add to our costs by increasing complexity and administrative requirements. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has sponsored programs to expand private health insurance programs for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been rapid growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. also in recent years, states have increasingly mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. if these efforts continue to be successful, we may experience a further shift of traditional medicare and medicaid beneficiaries to private health insurance options. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. these efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse impact on our business. healthcare insurers have taken steps to control the utilization and pricing of healthcare services, including clinical test services. we also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including healthcare insurance plans, to reduce utilization and pricing for clinical testing services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories. these healthcare insurance plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical laboratories accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. in addition, some healthcare insurance plans have been willing to limit the ppo or pos laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing. there are also more patients in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. 20 the increased consolidation among healthcare insurers also has increased the potential risk of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. these efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare insurer, may have a material adverse effect on our business. business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse effect on our business. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these enhancement plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that previously operated independently and has different systems, processes and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to both of our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. in addition, integration of clinical testing companies is further complicated because most clinical testing is performed under arrangements that are terminable at will or on short notice. thus, an acquisition may result in a customer decision to stop using us for clinical testing. if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or a timely manner. our business could be negatively affected if we are unable successfully to continue to improve our efficiency. as noted above, government payers and healthcare insurers have taken steps to control the utilization and pricing of healthcare services, including clinical testing services, and such steps may continue. if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate these activities, our business could be negatively affected. adverse resolution of the investigation related to nid may cause us material losses and have an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. nid and the company each received a subpoena from the united states attorney office for the eastern district of new york during the fourth quarter of 2004. the subpoenas requested a wide range of business records, including documents regarding parathyroid hormone ( pth ) test kits manufactured by nid and pth testing performed by the company. the company has voluntarily and actively cooperated with the investigation, providing information, witnesses and business records of nid and the company, including documents related to pth tests and test kits, as well as other tests and test kits. in the second and third quarters of 2005, the fda conducted an inspection of nid and issued a form 483 listing the observations made by the fda during the course of the inspection. nid responded to the form 483. 21 during the third quarter of 2007, the government and the company began settlement discussions. in the course of those discussions, the government has disclosed to the company certain of the government legal theories regarding the amount of damages allegedly incurred by the government, which include alleged violations of civil and criminal statutes including the false claims act and the food, drug and cosmetics act. violations of these statutes and related regulations could lead to a warning letter, injunction, fines or penalties, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or criminal prosecution, as well as claims by third parties. the company has analyzed the government position and presented its own analysis which argued against many of the government claims. in light of that analysis and based on the status of settlement discussions, the company has established a reserve, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, reflected in discontinued operations, of $241 million in connection with these claims. of the total reserve, $51 million and $190 million was recorded in the third and fourth quarters, respectively, of 2007. the company estimates that the amount reserved represents the minimum expected probable loss with respect to this matter. the company does not believe that a reasonable estimate for these losses in excess of the established reserve can be made at this time. the company has recorded a deferred tax benefit associated with that portion of the reserve that it expects will be tax deductible. eventual losses related to these matters may substantially exceed the reserve, and the impact could be material to the company results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in the period that such matters are determined or paid. the company continues to engage in discussions with the united states attorney office and those discussions potentially could lead to an agreement in principle to resolve some or all of the matters in the near future. there can be no assurance, however, when or whether a settlement may be reached, or as to its terms. if the company cannot reach an acceptable settlement agreement with the united states attorney office, the company would defend itself and nid and could incur significant costs in doing so. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. the company business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels), and the other jurisdictions in which the company engages in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical tests; certification of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the u.s. food and drug administration; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed for the operation of our business. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged, important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected and it could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistle blowers. the federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over healthcare fraud. in addition, legislative provisions 22 relating to healthcare fraud and abuse give federal enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. the federal government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our products and services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs, which represented approximately 17% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended december 31, 2007. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services and products; and injury to our reputation. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes could require us to modify our business objectives and could have a material adverse impact on the company business. failure to timely or accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for clinical test services is extremely complicated and is subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups. changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity and cost of our billing process. additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. further, our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems. missing or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. we believe that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack of, or inaccurate, billing information. failure to timely or correctly bill may lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing federal healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. failure in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of customers or business opportunities. information technology (it) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. we also have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our it systems. nevertheless, we may experience damages to our systems, and system failures and interruptions. in addition, we are in the process of implementing standard laboratory information and billing systems, which we expect will take several years to complete. failure to properly implement this standardization process could materially adversely affect our business. during system conversions of this type, workflow is re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. in addition, the 23 implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to be managed carefully. if we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of standard laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. for example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver test results or perform or bill for tests in a timely manner. if our operations are interrupted, it could adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and net revenues. failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and net revenues. the diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests that may result in a decrease in the demand for our tests or cause us to reduce the prices of our tests. our success in continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new tests. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful diagnostic tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing business, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our competition and our testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely affected. the development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients could negatively impact our testing volume and net revenues. advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of an independent clinical laboratory such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by physicians in their offices. although the clia compliance costs make it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians. diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under clia as well as by patients in their homes. test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the fda for point-of-care testing or home use. development of such technology and its use by our customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and negatively impact our net revenues. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately $3.4 billion of long-term debt outstanding. except for outstanding letters of credit and operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor and moody investor services. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan would increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in this case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource and competition for qualified employees is strong. if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, key management personnel or qualified skilled technical or professional employees at our clinical laboratories, research centers or manufacturing facilities, the company earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, skilled pathologists with positive relationships with 24 their respective local medical communities, particularly those with subspecialties, the company earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our testing services and in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services, and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic products involve certain inherent risks. the services that we provide and the products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the product can lead to injury or other adverse events. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our products. personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. in some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. similarly, negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. the failure of our it systems to keep pace with technological advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase our expenses. public and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology (hcit) standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the electronic exchange of clinical information, including test results, could require costly modifications to our existing hcit systems. while we do not expect hcit standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate time to comply, if we fail to adopt or delay in implementing hcit standards, we could lose customers and business opportunities. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not adequately secure information. in our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data. if we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired and our reputation could suffer. we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. although we conduct most of our business in the u.s., our expanding international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include, without limitation: changes in the local economic environment; political instability; social changes; intellectual property legal protections and remedies; trade regulations; procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products and services; exchange controls; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; changes in local laws or regulations; and potentially longer payment and collection cycles. 25 international operations also require us to devote significant management resources, to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. we expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or otherwise, which would increase these risks. as a result of these risks, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers regarding billing issues. some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we do not have insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any liability with respect to such claims. the ultimate outcome of the various proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined or paid. 26 cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may , believe , will , expect , project , estimate , anticipate , plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from independent clinical testing companies, and from hospitals with respect to testing for non-patients and from physicians. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers and payers. (c) impact of changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted or capitated fee arrangements. (d) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee for service payments by health insurers or other payers. (e) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests and the possibility that third party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) the policy of cms to limit medicare reimbursement for tests contained in automated chemistry panels to the amount that would have been paid if only the covered tests, determined on the basis of demonstrable medical necessity, had been ordered; (3) continued inconsistent practices among the different local carriers administering medicare; (4) inability to obtain from patients an advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; and (5) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to healthcare insurers. (f) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (g) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses, and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (h) denial of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (i) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories or tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories, including regulation by the fda. (j) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (k) inability to achieve additional benefits from our six sigma and efficiency initiatives. (l) adverse publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us. (m) computer or other it system failures that affect our ability to perform tests, report test results or properly bill customers, including potential failures resulting from the standardization of our it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. (n) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical test medicine, including 27 technology changes that lead to the development of more cost-effective tests such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (o) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. (p) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (q) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (r) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights protections of our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (s) impact of any national healthcare information network and the adoption of standards for health information technology interoperability that are incompatible with existing software and hardware infrastructure requiring widespread replacement of systems and/or software. (t) inability to promptly or properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. (u) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor and moody investor services causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (v) inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or more of our key senior management personnel. (w) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 33risk factors 19 cautionary factors that may affect future results 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35risk factors 21 cautionary factors that may affect future results 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35risk factors 19 cautionary factors that may affect future results 28 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 28. continued weakness in u.s., global, or regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our businesses. the economies of the united states and other regions of the world in which we do business continue to experience significant weakness which, in the case of the u.s., has resulted in significant unemployment and reduced economic activity. continued weakness or a further decline in economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our services and products, thus reducing our revenue. these conditions also could impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. while there has been significant consolidation in recent years in the clinical testing business, it remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical test providers: hospital-affiliated laboratories, other commercial clinical laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. most physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their 19 medical practice and hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital laboratory. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices generally require the practices to refer tests to the hospital laboratory. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service. increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. our failure to provide a broad test menu or service superior to hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and profitability could be damaged. u.s. healthcare reform legislation may result in significant changes, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the united states is significant and increasing. in march 2010, u.s. federal legislation was enacted to reform healthcare. the legislation provides for reductions in the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also includes a productivity adjustment that reduces the cpi market basket update beginning in 2011. the legislation imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the united states, including those purchased and used by laboratories, beginning in 2013. the legislation establishes the independent payment advisory board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing medicare cost growth while preserving quality. these proposals automatically will be implemented unless congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. further, the legislation calls for a center for medicare and medicaid innovation that will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the legislation also permits the establishment of accountable care organizations, a new healthcare delivery model. while the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change. our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. fda regulation of ldts and clinical laboratories may result in significant change, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. during 2010, the fda publicly announced that it has decided to exercise regulatory authority over ldts, and that it plans to issue guidance to the industry regarding its regulatory approach. the fda has indicated that it will use a risk-based approach to regulation and will direct more resources to tests with wider distribution and with the highest risk of injury, but that it will be sensitive to the need to not adversely impact patient care or innovation. the fda has not announced a framework or timetable for implementing its new regulatory approach. the regulatory approach adopted by the fda may lead to an increased regulatory burden, including additional costs and delays in introducing new tests. while the ultimate impact of the fda approach is unknown, it may be extensive and may result in significant change. our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical test services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services. from time to time, congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services which are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. cms changes add to our costs by increasing complexity and administrative requirements for billing. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. also in recent years, states have increasingly mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation is intended to control the growth of medicare advantage programs, encourage beneficiaries to switch back to traditional medicare programs and expand the eligibility for 20 traditional medicaid programs. recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, service coverage restrictions and imposing taxes on our services. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding can be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. if competitive bidding were implemented on a regional or national basis for clinical testing, it could materially adversely affect us. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. these efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse impact on our business. healthcare plans have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical test services. we also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including healthcare plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among healthcare insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these healthcare plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. in addition, some healthcare plans have been willing to limit the ppo or pos laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. the increased consolidation among healthcare plans also has increased the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes provisions, including ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage healthcare insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting. we expect continuing efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services. these efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a healthcare plan, may have a material adverse effect on our business. business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse effect on our business. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as strategic acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that was previously operated independently and has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; 21 diversion of management attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. as noted above, government payers and healthcare insurers have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services; such steps may continue. if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of these activities, our business could be negatively affected. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels), and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical tests; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the u.s. food and drug administration; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our products. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged, important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected and it could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue to strengthen their position and scrutiny over healthcare fraud. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide federal and state enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our products and services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: 22 diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services and products; and/or injury to our reputation. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes could require us to modify our business objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to timely or accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for clinical testing services is extremely complicated and is subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups. changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity and cost of our billing process. additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. further, our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems. missing or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. we believe that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack of, or inaccurate, billing information. failure to timely or correctly bill may lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including: (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. failure in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of customers or business opportunities. information technology ( it ) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. we also have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our it systems. nevertheless, we may experience damages to our systems, and system failures and interruptions. in addition, we are in the process of implementing standard laboratory information and billing systems, which we expect will take several years to complete. failure to properly implement this standardization process could materially adversely affect our business. during system conversions of this type, workflow is re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. in addition, the implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to be managed carefully. if we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of standard laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. for example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver test results or perform or bill for tests in a timely manner. if our operations are interrupted, it could 23 adversely affect our reputation and result in a loss of customers and revenues. failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostics testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests that may result in a decrease in the demand for our tests or cause us to reduce the prices of our tests. our success in continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new tests. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful diagnostic tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing business, our testing methods may become outdated when compared with our competition and our testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: cease developing, performing or selling products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or reengineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, or the internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by physicians in their offices. although clia compliance costs make it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians. diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under clia as well as by patients in their homes. test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the fda for point-of-care testing or home use. development of such technology and its use by our customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and negatively impact our revenues. some of our customers, such as hospitals and physicians, are internalizing tests that we currently perform, including anatomic pathology tests. if our customers continue to internalize tests that we currently perform and we do not develop new or alternative tests attractive to our customers, the demand for our testing services may be reduced and our revenues may be materially adversely impacted. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately $3.0 billion of debt outstanding. except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor s, moody investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no 24 assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, key management personnel or qualified skilled technical or professional employees at our clinical laboratories, research centers or manufacturing facilities, our earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, skilled pathologists, particularly those with subspecialties, with positive relationships with their respective local medical communities, our earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our testing services and in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of clinical testing services, including anatomic pathology services, and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic products involve certain inherent risks. the services that we provide and the products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the products can lead to injury or other adverse events. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our products. personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. in some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. similarly, negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. the failure of our it systems to keep pace with technological advances may significantly reduce our revenues or increase our expenses. public and private initiatives to create healthcare information technology ( hcit ) standards and to mandate standardized clinical coding systems for the electronic exchange of clinical information, including test orders and test results, could require costly modifications to our existing hcit systems. while we do not expect hcit standards to be adopted or implemented without adequate time to comply, if we fail to adopt or delay in implementing hcit standards, we could lose customers and business opportunities. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data or personal information. if we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. 25 we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. although we conduct most of our business in the united states, our expanding international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include, without limitation: changes in the local economic environment; political instability; social changes; intellectual property legal protections and remedies; trade regulations; procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products and services; exchange controls; export controls; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; changes in local laws or regulations; and potentially longer payment and collection cycles. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar laws in local jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. we expect to expand further our international operations, through acquisition or otherwise, which would increase these risks. as a result of these risks, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our medical diagnostic products business is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant diagnostics products. our medical diagnostic products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by regulatory authorities outside the united states, including the european commission. the process of obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to market a medical diagnostic product can be costly and time-consuming, and clearance or approval for future products is never certain. securing regulatory clearance or approval of additional indications or uses of existing products is not predictable. delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain clearance or approval for, future products, or new indications or uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. in addition, no assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with applicable regulations once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product. these requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarket reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. our diagnostic product facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory authorities. failure to comply with applicable rules could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of our products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while we or our suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability timely to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, revenues, profitability or financial condition. our efforts to develop commercially successful medical diagnostic products may not succeed. we may commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources to developing commercially successful medical diagnostic products. a high rate of failure is inherent in the development of new medical diagnostic products. there is no assurance that our efforts to develop these products will be commercially successful. failure can occur at any point 26 in the development process, including after significant funds have been invested. promising new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, failure to achieve market adoption, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or the infringement of intellectual property rights of others. even if we successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations of our existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by newer products, changing customer preferences or changing industry standards. innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third party reimbursement. we cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our medical diagnostic products under development will be launched, whether we will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire products, or whether any diagnostic products will be commercially successful. failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause our products to become obsolete. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. our business could be adversely impacted by cms adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. cms has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as icd-10, which significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. the new coding set is currently required to be implemented by october 1, 2013. we may be required to incur significant expense in implementing the new coding set, and if we do not adequately implement it, our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, if as a result of the new coding set physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for such tests. our business could be adversely impacted by cms adoption of new coding for molecular genetic tests. in october 2010, the american medical association cpt editorial panel approved 27 new analyte specific codes (and will consider additional codes in 2011) to describe several molecular genetic tests that currently require multiple cpt codes for billing purposes. the new codes could replace the current codes for payers, including medicare, beginning january 1, 2012. reimbursement levels for the new codes have yet to be determined. if reimbursement levels for the new codes do not recognize the value of the molecular genetic tests, our revenues and earnings could be adversely impacted. adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers regarding billing issues. some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we do not have insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any liability with respect to such claims. the ultimate outcome of the various proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined or paid. if we fail to comply with the requirements of our corporate integrity agreement, we could be subject to suspension or termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial monetary penalties. as part of a settlement with the u.s. department of justice and other federal government agencies, in april 2009 we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the u.s. department of health and human services office of inspector general. if we fail to comply with our obligations under the corporate integrity agreement, we could be suspended or terminated from participating in certain federal healthcare programs and subject to substantial monetary penalties. 27 cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may , believe , will , expect , project , estimate , anticipate , plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, and from hospitals with respect to testing for non-patients and from physicians. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers and payers. (c) a continued weakness in economic conditions. (d) impact of changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted or capitated fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of diagnostic testing, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health insurers or other payers. (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests (and the transition to a new coding set) and the possibility that third party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) continued inconsistent practices among the different local carriers administering medicare; (3) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (4) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health plans; (5) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units; (6) the impact of increased prior authorization programs for clinical testing; and (7) new rules regarding laboratory requisitions. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (j) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories or tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories, including regulation of laboratory services by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. 28 (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our six sigma and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us. (n) computer or other it system failures that affect our ability to perform tests, report test results or properly bill customers, including potential failures resulting from the standardization of our it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical test medicine, including technology changes that lead to the development of more cost-effective tests such as (1) point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed products, tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) impact of any national healthcare information network or the adoption of standards for health information technology interoperability that are incompatible with existing software and hardware infrastructure requiring widespread replacement of systems and/or software. (t) inability to promptly or properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. (u) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor s, moody investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (v) inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or more of our key senior management personnel. (w) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. (x) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new products or new uses of existing products. (y) failure to comply with the requirements of our corporate integrity agreement that could subject us to suspension or termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial monetary penalties. (z) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery stemming from the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35risk factors 19 cautionary factors that may affect future results 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk - ------------------------------------------------------------------- see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk................... 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 21 cautionary statement for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 21 cautionary factors that may affect future results 31 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 31 . 21 table of contents u.s. healthcare reform legislation may result in significant changes, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the united states is significant and increasing. in march 2010, u.s. federal legislation was enacted to reform healthcare. the legislation provides for reductions in the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also includes a productivity adjustment that reduces the cpi market basket update beginning in 2011. the legislation imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the united states, including those purchased and used by laboratories, beginning in 2013. the legislation establishes the independent payment advisory board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing medicare cost growth while preserving quality. these proposals automatically will be implemented unless congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. further, the legislation calls for a center for medicare and medicaid innovation that will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the legislation also permits the establishment of accountable care organizations. while the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change. our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. the clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. most physicians have admitting privileges or other relationships with hospitals as part of their medical practice and hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. in recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, and as a result, an increased percentage of physician practices are owned by hospitals. increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service. increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. our failure to provide a broad test menu or services superior to hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and profitability could be damaged. our new strategic plan may be difficult to implement, and may not be successful, and in either case, it could adversely impact our business and results of operations. in november 2012, we announced a new strategic plan for our company, including: refocusing on diagnostic information services; driving operational excellence; restoring growth; simplifying our organization to enable growth and productivity; and delivering disciplined capital management and strategically aligned accretive acquisitions. the success of our new strategy is subject to both the risks affecting our business generally and the inherent difficulty associated with implementing our new strategies and is dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our management and other employees and our success with third parties. restructuring activities involve risks, significant costs and potential liabilities. among the risks are the following: disruption of our business or distraction of our employees and management; customer attrition; difficulty recruiting, hiring, motivating and retaining talented and skilled personnel; increased stock price volatility and changes to our stock price that may be unrelated to our current results of operations; and executing the strategy in a timely or efficient manner. there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives or that implementation of changes will result in benefits or cost savings at the levels that we anticipate or at all. 22 table of contents our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. government payers and health insurers have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services; such steps may continue. if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of these activities, our business could be negatively affected. continued weakness in u.s., global, or regional economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our businesses. the economies of the united states and other regions of the world in which we do business continue to experience significant weakness which, in the case of the u.s., has resulted in significant unemployment and reduced economic activity. continued weakness or a further decline in economic conditions may adversely affect demand for our services and products, thus reducing our revenue. these conditions also could impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. our business could be adversely impacted by the fda's approach to regulation. the fda has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the united states. a number of esoteric tests we develop internally are offered as laboratory-developed tests ( ldts ). the fda has claimed regulatory authority over all ldts, but has exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most ldts performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. the fda has announced several regulatory and guidance initiatives that may impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing regulation of ldts and analyte specific reagents. if finalized, these initiatives could have a significant impact on our business. the regulatory approach adopted by the fda may lead to an increased regulatory burden on our company. the approach may hinder our ability to develop and market new products or services, cause an increase in the cost of our products or services, delay our ability to introduce new tests or hinder our ability to perform testing. the approach also may result in increased product cost, a delay in obtaining needed supplies, or, if a manufacturer withdraws its products from the market, an inability to obtain needed supplies. these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. from time to time, congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services which are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. also in recent years, states have increasingly mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation is intended to control the growth of medicare advantage programs, encourage beneficiaries to switch back to traditional medicare programs and expand the eligibility for traditional medicaid programs. recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, service coverage restrictions and imposing taxes on our services. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding can be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. if competitive bidding were implemented on a regional or national basis for clinical testing, it could materially adversely affect us. congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives as part of its deficit reduction discussions. these initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical laboratory services, co-payments for clinical laboratory testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. if any of these initiatives were implemented, it could materially affect us. 23 table of contents the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing analyte specific billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing. the 2012 cpt manual adopted approximately 100 of such codes. the 2013 cpt manual adopted additional codes and there are now cpt codes covering over 300 molecular tests. while cms deferred adoption of the 2012 molecular codes until january 2013, a handful of commercial health plans implemented them in 2012. the adoption of analyte specific codes will allow payers to better determine tests being performed. this could lead to limited coverage decisions or payment denials. further, in late 2012, cms delegated the payment level determination for the new codes to the medicare contractors. currently, some contractors are beginning to issue payment and coverage decisions, but the payment levels and the methodology for determining how payment will be determined by cms and commercial health plans still remains largely unresolved. if reimbursement levels for the new codes do not recognize the value of the molecular genetic testing we perform, our revenues and earnings could be adversely impacted. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. these efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse impact on our business. health plans have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. we also face efforts by non-governmental third party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. in addition, some health plans have been willing to limit the ppo or pos laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing. some health plans also are considering steps such as requiring preauthorization of testing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. the increased consolidation among health plans also has increased the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes provisions, including ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage health insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting. we expect continuing efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services. these efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a health plan, may have a material adverse effect on our business. business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse effect on our business. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; 24 table of contents difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the fda; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our products. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged, important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected and it could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue to strengthen their position and scrutiny over healthcare fraud. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide federal and state enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers and remedies to pursue suspected fraud and abuse. the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our products and services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services and products; and/or injury to our reputation. 25 table of contents although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. we believe that, based on our experience with settlements and public announcements by various government officials, the federal and state governments continue to strengthen their enforcement efforts against healthcare fraud. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes could require us to modify our business objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to timely or accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for diagnostic information services is extremely complicated and is subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups. changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity and cost of our billing process. additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. further, our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems. missing or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. we believe that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack of, or inaccurate, billing information. failure to timely or correctly bill may lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including: (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. attacks on our information technology systems, or failure in these systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities. information technology ( it ) systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses, unauthorized tampering and similar disruptive problems. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our it systems. our information technology systems from time to time have experienced minor attacks, minor viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, like other major companies, but each was mitigated, and none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the company's information technology systems, materially disrupted the company's performance of its business or, to the company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data. we are planning to implement common laboratory information and billing systems, which will promote standardized processes. we expect that this effort will take several years to complete. failure to properly implement this process could materially adversely affect our business. during system conversions of this type, workflow is re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. in addition, the implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to be managed carefully. 26 table of contents if we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of common laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. for example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver test results or perform or bill for testing in a timely manner. if we experience systems problems, or if we experience unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, it could adversely affect our reputation, result in a loss of customers and revenues and cause us to suffer financial damage, including significant costs to alleviate or eliminate the problem. failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the clinical testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. our success in continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new tests or services. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing business, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition and our revenue may be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: cease developing, performing or selling products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or reengineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by physicians in their offices. advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing. although physicians operating in-office laboratories incur additional costs for clia compliance, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits seek to increase their sales by marketing to physicians point-of-care test equipment and test kits that require minimal regulatory oversight. further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits. development of such technology and its use by our customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and negatively impact our revenues. some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site, thus allowing them to bill for services previously referred to outside pathology service providers, such as the company. these customers include specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists. if our customers continue to internalize testing that we currently perform, the demand for our testing services may be reduced and our revenues may be materially adversely impacted. 27 table of contents our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2012 , we had approximately $3.4 billion of debt outstanding. except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor's, moody's investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, secured receivables facility and term loan could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees at our clinical laboratories, research centers or manufacturing facilities, our earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. attracting and retaining qualified personnel may be more difficult than normal as we simplify and restructure the company. in addition, if we were to fail to attract and retain skilled pathologists, particularly those with subspecialties, with positive relationships with their respective local medical communities, our earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services and in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of diagnostic information services and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic products involve certain inherent risks. the services that we provide and the products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the products can lead to injury or other adverse events. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our products. personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. in some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. similarly, negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. if we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. 28 table of contents we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. although we conduct most of our business in the united states, our international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include, without limitation: changes in the local economic environment; political instability; social changes; intellectual property legal protections and remedies; trade regulations; procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products and services; exchange controls; attracting and retaining qualified employees; local market practices; export and import controls; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; changes in local laws or regulations; and potentially longer payment and collection cycles. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. if we do not successfully navigate these risks, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our medical diagnostic products business is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant diagnostic products. our medical diagnostic products are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the united states, including the fda, and by regulatory authorities outside the united states, including the european commission. the process of obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to market a medical diagnostic product can be costly and time-consuming, and clearance or approval for future products is never certain. securing regulatory clearance or approval of additional indications or uses of existing products is not predictable. delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain clearance or approval for, future products, or new indications or uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues and in substantial additional costs. in addition, no assurance can be given that we will remain in compliance with applicable regulations once clearance or approval has been obtained for a product. these requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising and postmarket reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts due to manufacturing quality concerns. our diagnostic product facilities and procedures and those of our suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory authorities. failure to comply with applicable rules could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to our business practices and operations; refunds, recalls or seizures of our products or products of our suppliers; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while we or our suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability timely to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, revenues, profitability or financial condition. our efforts to develop commercially successful medical diagnostic products may not succeed. we may commit substantial efforts, funds and other resources to developing commercially successful medical diagnostic products. a high rate of failure, or costly delay, is inherent in the development of new medical diagnostic products. there is no assurance that our efforts to develop these products will be commercially successful. failure can occur at any point in the development process, including after significant funds have been invested. promising new product candidates may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, 29 table of contents failure to achieve market adoption, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or the infringement of intellectual property rights of others. even if we successfully develop new products or enhancements or new generations of our existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by newer products, changing customer preferences or changing industry standards. innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third party reimbursement. we cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our medical diagnostic products under development will be launched, whether we will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire products, or whether any diagnostic products will be commercially successful. failure to launch successful new products or new indications for existing products may cause our products to become obsolete. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. our business could be adversely impacted by cms' adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. cms has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as icd-10, which significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. the new coding set is currently required to be implemented by october 1, 2014. we may be required to incur significant expense in implementing the new coding set, and if we do not adequately implement it, our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, if as a result of the new coding set physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for such tests. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of new coding for molecular genetic tests. the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing analyte specific billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing. the 2012 cpt manual adopted approximately 100 of such codes. the 2013 cpt manual adopted additional codes and there are now cpt codes covering over 300 molecular tests. while cms deferred adoption of the 2012 molecular codes until january 2013, a handful of commercial health plans implemented them in 2012. the adoption of analyte specific codes will allow payers to better determine tests being performed. this could lead to limited coverage decisions or payment denials. further, in late 2012, cms delegated the payment level determination for the new codes to the medicare contractors. currently, some contractors are beginning to issue payment and coverage decisions, but the payment levels and the methodology for determining how payment will be determined by cms and commercial health plans still remains largely unresolved. if reimbursement levels for the new codes do not recognize the value of the molecular genetic testing we perform, our revenues and earnings could be adversely impacted. adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers. some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we do not have insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any liabilities with respect to some of these claims. the ultimate outcome of the various proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined or paid. 30 table of contents in november 2011, the senate finance committee and the senate judiciary committee commenced an inquiry into certain alleged practices in the laboratory testing and managed care businesses. in november 2011, we received a letter from senator charles e. grassley, ranking member of the u.s. senate committee on the judiciary and senator max baucus, chairman of the u.s. senate committee on finance, requesting information regarding certain alleged practices in the laboratory testing and managed care businesses. a similar letter was sent to other companies that sponsor managed care organizations or which are engaged in the laboratory testing business. the company has cooperated with the request. the company is unable to predict the timing or outcome of this inquiry, or its impact on our business. similar inquiries may be made by other governmental authorities regarding this or other topics. we may experience negative publicity with respect to these matters. such inquiries may result in a finding of failure to comply with laws or regulations, changes in laws or regulations, the commencement of civil or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties or administrative remedies, including the loss of the right to participate in the medicare and medicaid programs, or the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. if the inquiries continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens on our company. these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effect of trends in utilization of the u.s. healthcare system. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of trends in the utilization of the healthcare system in the united states. trends in the utilization of the u.s. healthcare system can be influenced by such factors as unemployment, under-employed workers and decisions to delay medical care. declining utilization of the u.s. healthcare system may result in a decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services. these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if we fail to comply with the requirements of our corporate integrity agreement, we could be subject to suspension or termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial monetary penalties. as part of a settlement with the u.s. department of justice and other federal government agencies, in april 2009 we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the u.s. department of health and human services office of inspector general. if we fail to comply with our obligations under the corporate integrity agreement, we could be suspended or terminated from participating in certain federal healthcare programs and subject to substantial monetary penalties. cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may , believe , will , expect , project , estimate , anticipate , plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals and physicians. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers and payers. (c) a decline or continued weakness in economic conditions. (d) impact of changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted or capitated fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of diagnostic testing, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health insurers or other payers. 31 table of contents (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests (and the transition to a new coding set) and the possibility that third party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) continued inconsistent practices among the different local carriers administering medicare; (3) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (4) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health plans; (5) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units; and (6) the impact of increased prior authorization programs for clinical testing. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (j) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our six sigma and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us. (n) computer or other it system failures that affect our ability to perform testing, report test results or properly bill customers, or result in the disclosure of confidential information, including potential failures resulting from implementing common it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical test medicine, including technology changes that lead to the development of more cost-effective tests such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed products, tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) inability to promptly or properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. (t) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's, moody's investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (u) inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or more of our key senior management personnel. (v) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. (w) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new products or new uses of existing products. (x) failure to comply with the requirements of our corporate integrity agreement that could subject us to suspension or termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial monetary penalties. 32 table of contents (y) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery stemming from the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation. (z) results and consequences of governmental inquiries. (aa) trends in utilization of the healthcare system. (bb) difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our new strategic plan. (cc) inability to adapt to diverse and dynamic non-u.s. markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 23 cautionary factors that may affect future results 31 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 31 . u.s. healthcare reform legislation may result in significant changes, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the united states is significant and increasing. in march 2010, u.s. federal legislation was enacted to reform healthcare. the legislation provides for reductions in the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also includes a productivity adjustment that reduces the cpi market basket update beginning in 2011. the legislation imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the united states, including those purchased and used by laboratories. the legislation establishes the independent payment advisory board, which will be responsible, beginning in 2014, annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing medicare cost growth while preserving quality. these proposals automatically will be implemented unless congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. further, the legislation calls for a center for medicare and medicaid innovation that will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the legislation provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the legislation also permits the establishment of accountable care organizations. while the ultimate impact of the legislation on the healthcare industry is unknown, it is likely to be extensive and may result in significant change. our failure to adapt to these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business. the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. the clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. in recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, and as a result, an increased percentage of physician practices are owned by hospitals. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. our failure to provide a broad test menu or services or pricing superior to hospital-affiliated laboratories and other laboratories could have a material adverse effect on our business. the diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. if we fail to compete effectively, our business could be adversely affected and our revenues and profitability could be damaged. 23 table of contents government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. from time to time, congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services which are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. also in recent years, states have mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, service coverage restrictions and imposing taxes on our services. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding can be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. if competitive bidding were implemented on a regional or national basis for clinical testing, it could materially adversely affect us. congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives as part of its deficit reduction discussions. these initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical laboratory services, co-payments for clinical laboratory testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. if any of these initiatives were implemented, it could materially affect us. in 2014, cms will begin a five-year review of 1,250 codes on the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule to adjust payment beginning in january 2015 to reflect technological changes that have occurred since the clinical laboratory fee schedule was implemented. the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing analyte specific billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing. the adoption of analyte specific codes will allow payers to better determine tests being performed. this could lead to limited coverage decisions or payment denials. medicare contractors and medicaid programs continue to implement the new codes and issue coverage and payment decisions. payment levels for many new codes remain largely unresolved. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. these efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may have a material adverse impact on our business. third parties, including health plans, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. we also face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization and reimbursement for clinical testing services. for example, in light of health care reform, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. in addition, some health plans have been willing to limit the ppo or pos laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing. some health plans also are considering steps such as requiring preauthorization of testing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. 24 table of contents the increased consolidation among health plans also has increased the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes provisions, including ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage health insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting. the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing analyte specific billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing. the adoption of analyte specific codes will allow payers to better determine tests being performed. this could lead to limited coverage decisions or payment denials. commercial health plans continue to implement the new codes and issue coverage and payment decisions. payment levels for many new codes remain largely unresolved. we expect continuing efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services. these efforts, including future changes in third-party payer rules, practices and policies, or ceasing to be a contracted provider to a health plan, may have a material adverse effect on our business. our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. government payers and health insurers have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services; such steps may continue. if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of these activities, our business could be negatively affected. our new strategic plan may be difficult to implement, and may not be successful, and in either case, it could adversely impact our business and results of operations. in november 2012, we announced a new strategic plan for our company. the success of our new strategy is subject to both the risks affecting our business generally and the inherent difficulty associated with implementing our new strategies and is dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our management and other employees and our success with third parties. restructuring activities involve risks, significant costs and potential liabilities. among the risks are the following: disruption of our business or distraction of our employees and management; customer attrition; difficulty recruiting, hiring, motivating and retaining talented and skilled personnel; increased stock price volatility and changes to our stock price that may be unrelated to our current results of operations; and executing the strategy in a timely or efficient manner. there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives or that implementation of changes will result in benefits or cost savings at the levels that we anticipate or at all. business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult and, if unsuccessfully executed, may have a material adverse effect on our business. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. 25 table of contents if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the fda; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our products. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged, important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected and it could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue to strengthen their scrutiny and enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. in addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our products and services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services and products; and/or injury to our reputation. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. any noncompliance by us with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. 26 table of contents changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services and products to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes could require us to modify our business objectives and could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business could be adversely impacted by the fda's approach to regulation. the fda has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the united states. a number of esoteric tests we develop internally are offered as ldts. the fda has claimed regulatory authority over all ldts, but has exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most ldts performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. the fda has announced several regulatory and guidance initiatives that may impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing regulation of ldts, analyte specific reagents and products labeled "research use only" or "investigate use only" used in laboratories. these initiatives could have a significant impact on our business. the regulatory approach adopted by the fda may lead to an increased regulatory burden on our company. the approach may hinder our ability to develop and market new products or services, cause an increase in the cost of our products or services, delay our ability to introduce new tests or hinder our ability to perform testing. the approach also may result in increased product cost, a delay in obtaining needed supplies or, if a manufacturer withdraws its products from the market, an inability to obtain needed supplies. these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to timely or accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for diagnostic information services is extremely complicated and is subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups. changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity and cost of our billing process. additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. further, our billing systems require significant technology investment and, as a result of marketplace demands, we need to continually invest in our billing systems. missing or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and bad debt expense. we believe that much of our bad debt expense in recent years is attributable to the lack of, or inaccurate, billing information (in addition to the failure of patients to pay the portion of the receivable that is their responsibility). failure to timely or correctly bill may lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including: (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. attacks on our information technology systems, or failure in these systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses, unauthorized tampering and similar disruptive problems. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our it systems. our information technology systems from time to time have experienced minor attacks, minor viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, like other major companies, but each was mitigated, and none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the company's information technology systems, materially disrupted the company's performance of its business or, to the company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data. we are planning to implement common laboratory information and billing systems, which will promote standardized processes. we expect that this effort will take several years to complete. failure to properly implement this process could materially adversely affect our business. during system conversions of this type, workflow is re-engineered to take advantage of best practices and enhanced system capabilities, which may cause temporary disruptions in service. in addition, the 27 table of contents implementation process, including the transfer of databases and master files to new data centers, presents significant conversion risks that need to be managed carefully. if we experience systems problems, including with our implementation of common laboratory or billing systems, they may interrupt our ability to operate. for example, the problems may impact our ability to process test orders, deliver test results or perform or bill for testing in a timely manner. if we experience systems problems, or if we experience unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, it could adversely affect our reputation, result in a loss of customers and revenues and cause us to suffer financial damage, including significant costs to alleviate or eliminate the problem. failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the clinical testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. our success in continuing to introduce new tests, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new tests or services. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new tests, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing business, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition and our revenue may be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: cease developing, performing or selling products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or reengineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing. further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits. development of such technology and its use by our customers would reduce the demand for our laboratory-based testing services and negatively impact our revenues. some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site, thus allowing them to bill for services previously referred to outside pathology service providers, such as the company. these customers include specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists. if our customers continue to internalize testing that we currently perform, the demand for our testing services may be reduced and our revenues may be materially adversely impacted. 28 table of contents our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately $3.3 billion of debt outstanding. except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor's, moody's investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, the borrowing costs on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and secured receivables facility could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. if we were to lose, or to fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees at our clinical laboratories or research centers, our earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, if we were to fail to attract and retain skilled pathologists, particularly those with subspecialties, with positive relationships with their respective local medical communities, our earnings and revenues could be adversely affected. failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services and in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of diagnostic information services and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic products involve certain inherent risks. the services that we provide and the products that we design, manufacture and market are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks related to the use of the products can lead to injury or other adverse events. these events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our products. personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. in some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. similarly, negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. if we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. 29 table of contents we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. although we conduct most of our business in the united states, our international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include without limitation: changes in the local economic environment; political instability; social changes; intellectual property legal protections and remedies; trade regulations; procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products and services; exchange controls; attracting and retaining qualified employees; local market practices; export and import controls; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; changes in local laws or regulations; and potentially longer payment and collection cycles. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. if we do not successfully navigate these risks, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. our business could be adversely impacted by cms' adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. cms has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as icd-10, which significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. the new coding set is currently required to be implemented by october 1, 2014. if we do not adequately implement the new coding set, our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, if as a result of the new coding set physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for such tests. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of new coding for molecular genetic tests. the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing analyte specific billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing. the adoption of analyte specific codes will allow payers to better determine tests being performed. this could lead to limited coverage decisions or payment denials. commercial health plans, medicare contractors and medicaid programs continue to implement the new codes and issue coverage and payment decisions. payment levels for many new codes remain largely unresolved. if reimbursement levels for the new codes do not recognize the value of the molecular genetic testing we perform, our revenues and earnings could be adversely impacted. 30 table of contents adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers. some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages, as well as damage to our reputation, and decrease the demand for our services and products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we do not have insurance or are substantially self-insured for a significant portion of any liabilities with respect to some of these claims. the ultimate outcome of the various proceedings or claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the period in which the impact of such matters is determined or paid. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effect of trends in utilization of the u.s. healthcare system. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of trends in the utilization of the healthcare system in the united states. trends in the utilization of the u.s. healthcare system can be influenced by such factors as unemployment, under-employed workers, decisions to delay medical care and increased patient financial responsibility for medical care. declining utilization of the u.s. healthcare system may result in a decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services. these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the failure to successfully commercialize our development state drug assets may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. as a result of our 2011 acquisition of celera, we have an interest in non-commercial, development state drug assets, including through a license agreement with merck &amp; co. inc. and small molecule drug discovery and development programs sold by celera to pharmacyclics inc. in 2006. we are entitled to receive milestone payments based on development progress for each potential product and royalty payments from the sale of products, if any, resulting from these programs. however, we have no direct control over the amount or timing of resources devoted to developing or commercializing potential products. developing and commercializing new products includes inherent risks and uncertainties. new product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, the failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or the infringement of the patents or intellectual property of others. as a result, we cannot state with certainty when or whether any products under development will be launched or whether any products will be commercially successful. in addition, even if some milestones are met, there is no assurance that any programs will result in any product sales that would generate royalty payments to us. if we fail to comply with the requirements of our corporate integrity agreement, we could be subject to suspension or termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial monetary penalties. as part of a settlement with the u.s. department of justice and other federal government agencies, in april 2009 we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement with the u.s. department of health and human services office of inspector general. if we fail to comply with our obligations under the corporate integrity agreement, which expires in april 2014, we could be suspended or terminated from participating in certain federal healthcare programs and subject to substantial monetary penalties. cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may, believe, will, expect, project, estimate, anticipate, plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: 31 table of contents (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals and physicians. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers and payers. (c) a decline or continued weakness in economic conditions. (d) impact of changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted or capitated fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of diagnostic testing, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health insurers or other payers. (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third-party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests (and the transition to a new coding set) and the possibility that third-party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (3) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health plans; (4) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units; and (5) the impact of increased prior authorization programs for clinical testing. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (j) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our business performance tools and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us. (n) computer or other it system failures that affect our ability to perform testing, report test results or properly bill customers, or result in the disclosure of confidential information, including potential failures resulting from implementing common it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical testing, including technology changes that lead to the development of more convenient or cost-effective testing, or testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed products, tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) inability to promptly or properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. (t) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's, moody's investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. 32 table of contents (u) inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or more of our key senior management personnel. (v) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. (w) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new services or tests or new uses of existing tests. (x) failure to comply with the requirements of our corporate integrity agreement that could subject us to suspension or termination from participation in federal healthcare programs and substantial monetary penalties. (y) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery stemming from the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation. (z) results and consequences of governmental inquiries. (aa) trends in utilization of the healthcare system. (bb) increased patient financial responsibility for services. (cc) difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our new strategic plan. (dd) inability to adapt to diverse and dynamic non-u.s. markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 23 cautionary factors that may affect future results 30 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 30 . the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to march 2010 u.s. federal legislation enacted to reform healthcare. the law provides for reductions in the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also includes a productivity adjustment that reduces the cpi market basket update beginning in 2011. the law imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the united states, including those purchased and used by laboratories. the law established the independent payment advisory board, which is responsible annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing medicare cost growth while preserving quality. these proposals automatically will be implemented unless congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. further, the law calls for a center for medicare and medicaid innovation that will examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the law provides for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the law also permits the establishment of acos. significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading the united states clinical testing industry , beginning on page 12. for example, acos and patient-centered medical homes are growing as a means to deliver patient care. value-based reimbursement is increasing. health care services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers (e.g., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues (e.g., retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies (e.g., telemedicine). we expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. 23 table of contents the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. the clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community physicians and encourage the physicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. in recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, and as a result, an increased percentage of physician practices are owned by hospitals. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community physicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance physician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. the formation of acos and idns, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. the diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. from time to time, congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services which are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. in recent years, reductions in the medicare physician fee schedule for anatomic pathology services adversely impacted our business relative to the business of some of our competitors whose anatomic pathology business was not as sizable as ours. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. also in recent years, states have mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, service coverage restrictions and imposing taxes on our services. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding can be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives as part of its deficit reduction discussions. these initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical laboratory services, co-payments for clinical laboratory testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. 2014 u.s. federal legislation, the protecting access to medicare act of 2014, is impacting the clinical laboratory testing industry. key parts of this legislation include provisions that provide for the establishment of an advisory panel and a market-based process to rebase the clinical laboratory fee schedule, developing a new fee schedule and limiting reductions in that fee schedule. if this process does not recognize the value that clinical laboratory testing brings to the healthcare system, our business can be materially adversely impacted. 24 table of contents third parties, including health plans, have taken steps to control the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. for example, in light of health care reform, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. we expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services. acos and idns also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. in addition, some health plans have been willing to limit the ppo or pos laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing; we may cease to be a contracted provider to a health plan. some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and considering steps such as requiring preauthorization of testing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. the increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes provisions, including ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage health insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting. our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. it is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to control the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. 25 table of contents if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the fda; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue to strengthen their scrutiny and enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. in addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services ; and/or injury to our reputation. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives. 26 table of contents our business could be adversely impacted by the fda's approach to regulation. the fda has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the united states. a number of esoteric tests we develop internally are offered as ldts. the fda has claimed regulatory authority over all ldts, but has stated that it exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most ldts performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. the fda has announced guidance initiatives that may impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing regulation of ldts. these initiatives could have a significant impact on our business, including the application of medical device excise taxes to our business. the approach may hinder our ability to develop and market new services, cause an increase in the cost of our services, delay our ability to introduce new tests or hinder our ability to perform testing. failure to accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for diagnostic information services is complex and subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, physicians, hospitals and employer groups. failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs could lead to various penalties, including: (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. attacks on our information technology systems, or failure in these systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities or otherwise adversely impact our business. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. unauthorized persons may seek to obtain intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our it systems. moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses, unauthorized tampering and similar disruptive problems. our information technology systems from time to time have experienced minor attacks, minor viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, like other major companies, but each was mitigated, and none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the company's information technology systems, materially disrupted the company's performance of its business or, to the company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent or minimize vulnerabilities in our it systems, including the loss or theft of intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our systems. in addition, we continue to strengthen precautionary measures to reduce the risk of, and to detect, future cyber threats. however, cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers, compromise intellectual property or confidential information or otherwise adversely impact our business. there can be no assurances that our precautionary measures will prevent or successfully defend against cyber threats that could have a significant impact on our business. we are planning to implement common laboratory information and billing systems, which will promote standardized processes. we expect that this effort will take several years to complete and may result in temporary disruptions in service. 27 table of contents failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the clinical testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing business, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our solutions or services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: cease developing, performing or selling solutions or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or reengineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new, more cost-effective solutions that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing. further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits. some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services, including specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists, have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site. hospitals also are internalizing clinical laboratory testing, including some esoteric testing. internalization of testing may reduce demand for services previously referred to outside service providers, such as the company. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately $3.8 billion of debt outstanding. except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor's, moody's investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. 28 table of contents we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. we may lose, or fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees (e.g., pathologists) at our clinical laboratories or research centers. failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. the services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. if we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. although we conduct most of our business in the united states, our international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include without limitation: changes in the local economic environment; political instability; social changes; intellectual property legal protections and remedies; trade regulations; procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of services; exchange controls; attracting and retaining qualified employees; local market practices; export and import controls; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; changes in local laws or regulations; and potentially longer payment and collection cycles. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. 29 table of contents our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. our business could be adversely impacted by cms' adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. cms has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as icd-10, which significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. the new coding set is currently required to be implemented by october 1, 2015. we must adequately implement the new coding set. in addition, physicians may fail to provide appropriate codes for desired tests; historically, delays in billing have resulted in increased costs and decreased collection of payment. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of new coding for tests. the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing and toxicology testing. the adoption of these codes will allow payers to better determine tests being performed. this has led, and could continue to lead, to limited coverage decisions, payment denials or new procedures or conditions for payment. health plans, medicare contractors and medicaid programs continue to consider or implement the new codes and issue coverage and payment decisions. payment levels for many new codes remain largely unresolved and health care providers continue to address implementation of the new codes. adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers. some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effect of trends in the u.s. healthcare system, including healthcare utilization and increased patient financial responsibility for services. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of trends in the utilization of the healthcare system in the united states. trends in the utilization of the u.s. healthcare system can be influenced by such factors as unemployment, under-employed workers, decisions to delay medical care and increased patient financial responsibility for medical care. declining utilization of the u.s. healthcare system may result in a decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services. in the current environment, patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased financial responsibility for, their healthcare. our operations also may be adversely impacted by the recent trend to increased patient responsibility for payment for healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may, believe, will, expect, project, estimate, anticipate, plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals, physicians and others. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers and payers. 30 table of contents (c) a decline in economic conditions. (d) impact of changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted or capitated fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of diagnostic testing, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health insurers or other payers. (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third-party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests (and the transition to a new coding set) and the possibility that third-party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (3) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health plans; (4) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units; and (5) the impact of increased prior authorization programs for clinical testing. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (j) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our business performance tools and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us. (n) computer or other it system failures that affect our ability to perform testing, report test results or properly bill customers, or result in the disclosure of confidential information, including potential failures resulting from implementing common it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical testing, including technology changes that lead to the development of more convenient or cost-effective testing, or testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) inability to properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. (t) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's, moody's investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (u) inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or more of our key senior management personnel. 31 table of contents (v) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. (w) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new services or solutions or new uses of existing tests. (x) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery, including those stemming from the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation. (y) results and consequences of governmental inquiries. (z) trends in utilization of the healthcare system. (aa) increased patient financial responsibility for services. (bb) difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our new strategic plan. (cc) inability to adapt to diverse and dynamic non-u.s. markets. (dd) the impact of informatics on our industry and the ability of our company to adapt to that impact. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 30 cautionary factors that may affect future results 37 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 37 . the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the passage of the affordable care act ("aca") in 2010. the law provided for reductions in the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also included a productivity adjustment that reduced the cpi market basket update since 2011. the law imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the u.s., including those purchased and used by laboratories; effective january 2016, congress imposed a two-year moratorium on the device tax. the law established the independent payment advisory board, which is responsible to submit annually proposals aimed at reducing medicare cost growth while preserving quality. these proposals automatically will be implemented unless congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. further, the aca established the center for medicare and medicaid innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the law provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the law also permits the establishment of acos. significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading the united states clinical testing industry , beginning on page 14. for example, acos and patient-centered medical homes are growing as a means to deliver patient care. value-based reimbursement is increasing; cms has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved in coming years. healthcare industry participants are consolidating. healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers (e.g., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues (e.g., retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies (e.g., telemedicine). we expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. 30 table of contents the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. the clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. in recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, and as a result, an increased percentage of physician practices are owned by hospitals. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. increased hospital acquisitions of physician practices enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. the formation of acos and idns, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. the diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. from time to time, congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services which are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. in recent years, reductions in the medicare physician fee schedule for anatomic pathology services adversely impacted our business relative to the business of some of our competitors whose anatomic pathology business was not as sizable as ours. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. also in recent years, states have mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives as part of its deficit reduction discussions. these initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. 2014 u.s. federal legislation, the protecting access to medicare act of 2014, is impacting the clinical testing industry. key parts of this legislation included provisions that provide for the establishment of an advisory panel and a market-based process to rebase the clinical laboratory fee schedule, developing a new fee schedule and limiting reductions in that fee schedule. if this process does not recognize the value that clinical testing services bring to the healthcare system, our business can be materially adversely impacted. 31 table of contents health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. for example, since the passage of aca, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. we expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. acos and idns also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. in addition, some health plans have been willing to limit the ppo or pos laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing; we may cease to be a contracted provider to a health plan. some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and considering steps such as requiring preauthorization of testing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. the increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. the aca included provisions, including ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage health insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting. government payers and third parties, including health plans, may not recognize the value of, or compensate or reimburse us for, new and innovative solutions. government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. these steps discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. it is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; 32 table of contents difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the fda; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue to strengthen their scrutiny and enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. in addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services ; and/or injury to our reputation. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. moreover, even when an 33 table of contents investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives. our business could be adversely impacted by the fda's approach to regulation. the fda has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the u.s. a number of esoteric tests we develop internally are offered as ldts. the fda has claimed regulatory authority over all ldts, but has stated that it exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most ldts performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. the fda has announced guidance initiatives that may impact the clinical testing business, including by increasing regulation of ldts. these initiatives could have a significant impact on our business, including the application of medical device excise taxes to our business. the approach may hinder our ability to develop and market new services, cause an increase in the cost of our services, delay our ability to introduce new tests or hinder our ability to perform testing. failure to accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for diagnostic information services is complex and subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, clinicians, hospitals and employer groups. failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs may result in various consequences, including: (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. attacks on our information technology systems, or failure in these systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities or otherwise adversely impact our business. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. unauthorized persons may seek to obtain intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our it systems. moreover, despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses, unauthorized tampering and similar disruptive problems. our information technology systems from time to time have experienced minor attacks, minor viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, like other major companies, but each was mitigated, and none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the company's information technology systems, materially disrupted the company's performance of its business or, to the company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data. we have taken precautionary measures to prevent or minimize vulnerabilities in our it systems, including the loss or theft of intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our systems. in addition, we continue to strengthen precautionary measures to reduce the risk of, and to detect and respond to, future cyber threats. however, cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers, compromise intellectual property or confidential information or otherwise adversely impact our business. there can be no assurances that our precautionary measures will prevent or successfully defend against cyber threats that could have a significant impact on our business. we are planning to implement common laboratory information and billing systems, which will promote standardized processes. we expect that this effort will take several years to complete and may result in temporary disruptions in service. 34 table of contents failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the clinical testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our esoteric testing business, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our solutions or services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: cease developing, performing or selling solutions or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or re-engineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new, more cost-effective solutions that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing. further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits. some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services, including specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists, have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site. hospitals also are internalizing clinical laboratory testing, including some esoteric testing. internalization of testing may reduce demand for services previously referred to outside service providers, such as the company. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately $3.7 billion of debt outstanding. except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor's, moody's investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. 35 table of contents we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. we may lose, or fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees (e.g., pathologists) at our clinical laboratories or research centers. failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. the services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. if we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. although we conduct most of our business in the united states, our international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include without limitation: changes in the local economic environment; political instability; social changes; intellectual property legal protections and remedies; trade regulations; procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of services; exchange controls; attracting and retaining qualified employees; local market practices; export and import controls; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; changes in local laws or regulations; and potentially longer payment and collection cycles. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. 36 table of contents our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of new coding for tests. the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing and toxicology testing. the adoption of these codes is allowing payers to better determine tests being performed. this has led, and could continue to lead, to limited coverage decisions, payment denials or new procedures or conditions for payment. health plans, medicare contractors and medicaid programs continue to consider or implement the new codes and issue coverage and payment decisions. payment levels for many new codes remain largely unresolved and healthcare providers continue to address implementation of the new codes. our business could be adversely impacted by cms' adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. cms has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as icd-10, which significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. the new coding set was implemented october 1, 2015. clinicians may fail to provide appropriate codes for desired tests, and our claims for reimbursement using the new codes may be denied. further, delays in billing historically have resulted in increased costs and decreased collection of payment. adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers. some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effect of trends in the u.s. healthcare system, including healthcare utilization and increased patient financial responsibility for services. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of trends in the utilization of the healthcare system in the united states. trends in the utilization of the u.s. healthcare system can be influenced by such factors as under-employed workers, decisions to delay medical care and increased patient financial responsibility for medical care. declining utilization of the u.s. healthcare system may result in a decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services. in the current environment, patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased financial responsibility for, their healthcare. our operations also may be adversely impacted by the recent trend to increased patient responsibility for payment for healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may, believe, will, expect, project, estimate, anticipate, plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals, physicians and others. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers and payers. (c) a decline in economic conditions. 37 table of contents (d) impact of changes in payer mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted or capitated fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of clinical testing, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health insurers or other payers. (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third-party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests and the possibility that third-party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (3) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health plans; (4) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units; and (5) the impact of increased prior authorization programs for clinical testing. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (j) changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our business performance tools and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us. (n) computer or other it system failures that affect our ability to perform testing, report test results or properly bill customers, or result in the disclosure of confidential information, including potential failures resulting from implementing common it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical testing, including technology changes that lead to the development of more convenient or cost-effective testing, or testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) esoteric testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) inability to properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. (t) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's, moody's investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (u) inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of the services of one or more of our key senior management personnel. (v) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. 38 table of contents (w) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new services or solutions or new uses of existing tests. (x) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery, including those stemming from the 2010 federal healthcare reform legislation. (y) results and consequences of governmental inquiries. (z) trends in utilization of the healthcare system. (aa) increased patient financial responsibility for services. (bb) difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our strategic plan. (cc) inability to adapt to diverse and dynamic non-u.s. markets. (dd) the impact of informatics on our industry and the ability of our company to adapt to that impact. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 33 cautionary factors that may affect future results 41 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 41 . the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the passage of the affordable care act ("aca") in 2010. the aca provided for reductions in the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule of 1.75% for five years beginning in 2011 and also included a productivity adjustment that reduced the cpi market basket update since 2011. the aca imposes an excise tax on the seller for the sale of certain medical devices in the u.s., including those purchased and used by laboratories; effective january 2016, congress imposed a two-year moratorium on the device tax. the aca established the independent payment advisory board, which is responsible to submit annually proposals aimed at reducing medicare cost growth while preserving quality. these proposals automatically will be implemented unless congress enacts alternative proposals that achieve the same savings targets. further, the aca established the center for medicare and medicaid innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the aca provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the aca also permits the establishment of acos. the newly-elected president of the united states has announced that he favors repealing the aca in 2017, and leaders of the republication-controlled federal legislature also have expressed a desire to repeal the aca. the scope and timing of any 33 table of contents legislation to repeal, amend, replace, or reform the aca is uncertain, but if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the u.s. healthcare system. in addition, uncertainty regarding the aca prior to any such repeal, amendment, replacement or reform could create uncertainty generally in the healthcare market. significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading the united states clinical testing industry , beginning on page 17. for example, acos and patient-centered medical homes are growing as a means to deliver patient care. value-based reimbursement is increasing; cms has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved in coming years. patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased responsibility for payment for, their healthcare. healthcare industry participants are consolidating. healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers ( e.g ., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues ( e.g. , retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies ( e.g. , telemedicine). utilization of the healthcare system is being influenced by several factors, and may result in a decline in the demand for diagnostic information services. we expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. the clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. in recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, increasing the percentage of physician practices owned by hospitals. increased hospital ownership of physician practices enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. the formation of acos and idns, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. the diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. from time to time, congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services that are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. in recent years, reductions in the medicare physician fee schedule for anatomic pathology services adversely impacted our business relative to the business of some of our competitors whose anatomic pathology business was not as sizable as ours. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the aca includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. also in recent years, states have mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. recently, state budget pressures 34 table of contents have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives as part of its deficit reduction discussions. these initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. 2014 u.s. federal legislation, the protecting access to medicare act of 2014, is impacting the clinical testing industry. key parts of this legislation included provisions that provide for the establishment of an advisory panel and a market-based process to rebase the clinical laboratory fee schedule, developing a new fee schedule and limiting reductions in that fee schedule; currently it is anticipated that the new fee schedule would be come effective in 2018. if this process does not recognize the value that clinical testing services bring to the healthcare system, our business can be materially adversely impacted. health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. for example, since the passage of aca, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. we expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. acos and idns also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. in addition, some health plans have been willing to limit the ppo or pos laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing; we may cease to be a contracted provider to a health plan. some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and considering steps such as requiring preauthorization of testing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. the increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. the aca included provisions, including ones regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage health insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting. government payers and third parties, including health plans, may not recognize the value of, or compensate or reimburse us for, new and innovative solutions. government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. these steps discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. it is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. 35 table of contents business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the fda; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our 36 table of contents business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue to strengthen their scrutiny and enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantially increased funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. in addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services; and/or injury to our reputation. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives. our business could be adversely impacted by the fda's approach to regulation. the fda has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the u.s. a number of tests we develop internally are offered as ldts. the fda has claimed regulatory authority over all ldts, but has stated that it exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most ldts performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. the fda has published a "discussion document" that provides the fda's views on legislation to govern ldts. new legislation could significantly impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing or modifying the regulation of ldts, hindering our ability to develop and market new services, causing an increase in the cost of our services, delaying our ability to introduce new tests or hindering our ability to perform testing. failure to accurately bill for our services, or to comply with applicable laws relating to government healthcare programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for diagnostic information services is complex and subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, clinicians, hospitals and employer groups. effective commencing in november 2016, billing and related operations for our company are being provided by a third party under the company's oversight. failure to accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs may result in various consequences, including: (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. 37 table of contents failure in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities or otherwise adversely impact our business. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, system conversion or standardization initiatives, human acts and natural disasters. despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to unauthorized tampering, cyber attack or other security breach. unauthorized persons may seek to obtain intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our it systems. in december 2016, we reported that an internet application on our it network had been the target of an external cyber attack, resulting in the theft of certain patient data. the accessed data did not include social security numbers, credit card information, or insurance and other financial information, and there is no indication that patient data has been misused in any way. when the intrusion was discovered, we immediately took steps to stop any further unauthorized activity. we may be subject to litigation and governmental investigation, and may suffer reputational damage, as a result of the data breach, which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the data breach reported in december 2016, our it systems from time to time have experienced other minor attacks, minor viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, like other major companies, but each was mitigated, and none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the company's it systems, materially disrupted the company's performance of its business or, to the company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data. we have taken, and continue to take, precautionary measures to prevent or minimize vulnerabilities in our it systems, including the loss or theft of intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our systems. in addition, we are working with law enforcement, as well as a leading cyber security firm, to investigate and further evaluate and strengthen our systems and continue to strengthen precautionary measures to reduce the risk of, and to detect and respond to, future cyber threats. however, cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers, compromise intellectual property or confidential information or otherwise adversely impact our business. there can be no assurances that our precautionary measures will prevent or successfully defend against cyber threats that could have a significant impact on our business. failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the clinical testing industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our advanced testing capabilities, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our solutions or services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: cease developing, performing or selling solutions or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; 38 table of contents obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or re-engineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new, more cost-effective solutions that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by clinicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing. further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits. some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services, including specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists, have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site. hospitals also are internalizing clinical laboratory testing, including some non-routine and advanced testing. internalization of testing may reduce demand for services previously referred to outside service providers, such as the company. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately $3.7 billion of debt outstanding. except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor's, moody's investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. we may lose, or fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees ( e.g. , pathologists). failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the appropriate standard of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. the services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. 39 table of contents negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. if we do not adequately safeguard that information and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. in december 2016, we reported that an internet application on our it network had been the target of an external cyber attack, resulting in the theft of certain patient data. we may be subject to litigation and governmental investigation, and may suffer reputational damage, as a result of a data breach, which could have an adverse impact on our business. we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. although we conduct most of our business in the united states, our international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include without limitation: changes in the local economic environment; political instability; social changes; intellectual property legal protections and remedies; trade regulations; procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of services; exchange controls; attracting and retaining qualified employees; local market practices; export and import controls; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; changes in local laws or regulations; and potentially longer payment and collection cycles. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of new coding for tests. the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing and toxicology testing. the adoption of these codes is allowing payers to better determine tests being performed. this has led, and could continue to lead, to limited coverage decisions, payment denials or new procedures or conditions for payment. health plans, medicare contractors and medicaid programs continue to consider or implement the new codes and issue coverage and payment decisions. payment levels for many new codes remain largely unresolved and healthcare providers continue to address implementation of the new codes. 40 table of contents adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers. some of the proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages. cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may, believe, will, expect, project, estimate, anticipate, plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals, physicians and others. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers and payers. (c) a decline in economic conditions. (d) impact of changes in payment mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted, capitated or bundled fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of clinical testing or innovative solutions, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health insurers or other payers. (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third-party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of medicare carriers to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests and the possibility that third-party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (3) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health plans; (4) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units; and (5) the impact of increased prior authorization programs for clinical testing. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (j) changes in and complexity of federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our business performance tools and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the clinical testing industry or us. (n) computer or other it system or it security failures that affect our ability to perform testing, report test results or properly bill customers, or result in the disclosure of confidential information, including potential failures resulting from implementing common it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. 41 table of contents (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical testing, including technology changes that lead to the development of more convenient or cost-effective testing, or testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) failure to properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. (t) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's, moody's investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (u) inability to hire or retain qualified or key senior management personnel. (v) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. (w) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new services or solutions or new uses of existing tests. (x) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery, including those stemming from the aca (or its repeal, amendment or replacement), trends in utilization of the healthcare system and increased patient financial responsibility for services. (y) results and consequences of governmental inquiries. (z) difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our strategic plan. (aa) the impact of informatics on our industry and the ability of our company to adapt to that impact. (bb) political, legal, operational and other changes and challenges in international markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 35 cautionary factors that may affect future results 43 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 43. the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the passage of the aca in 2010. the aca established the center for medicare and medicaid innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the aca provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the aca also permits the establishment of acos. the president of the united states has announced that he favors repealing the aca. in 2017, the federal legislature undertook efforts to repeal, revise or replace the aca, and the individual mandate adopted as part of the aca was repealed. in more recent legislation, some additional aspects of the aca were modified: another two-year moratorium was implemented on the device tax imposed on the sellers of certain medical devices in the u.s., including those purchased and used by laboratories; the tax on health insurers was delayed for a year; and the "cadillac tax" on certain employee benefit plans was also delayed for two years. as part of legislation enacted in early 2018, the independent payment advisory board, which under the aca was to be responsible annually to submit proposals aimed at reducing medicare cost growth while preserving quality, was repealed. the scope and timing of any further legislation to repeal, amend, replace, or reform the rest of the aca is uncertain, but if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the u.s. healthcare system. in addition, uncertainty regarding the aca prior to any such repeal, amendment, replacement or reform could create uncertainty generally in the healthcare market. 35 table of contents significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading the united states clinical testing industry , beginning on page 17. for example, acos, idns and patient-centered medical homes have grown as a means to deliver patient care. value-based reimbursement is increasing; cms has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved. patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased responsibility for payment for, their healthcare. healthcare industry participants are consolidating. healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers ( e.g ., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues ( e.g. , retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies ( e.g. , telemedicine). utilization of the healthcare system is being influenced by several factors, and may result in a decline in the demand for diagnostic information services. we expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. the clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. in recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, increasing the percentage of physician practices owned by hospitals. increased hospital ownership of physician practices may enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. the formation of acos and idns, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. the diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. from time to time, congress has legislated reductions in, or frozen updates to, the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services that are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. in recent years, reductions in the medicare physician fee schedule for anatomic pathology services adversely impacted our business relative to the business of some of our competitors whose anatomic pathology business was not as sizable as ours. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the aca includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has continued to expand its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been continued growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. also, states have mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. recently, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. congress 36 table of contents periodically considers cost-saving initiatives. these initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. pama is impacting the diagnostic information services industry. pursuant to this legislation, cms has revised the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule for 2018, 2019 and 2020. under the revised medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule, reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing is scheduled to be reduced in 2018, 2019 and 2020. pama calls for further revision of the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule for years after 2020, based on future surveys of market rates; further reduction in reimbursement may result from such revisions. health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. for example, since the passage of aca, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. we expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. acos and idns also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. in addition, some health plans have been willing to limit the ppo or pos laboratory network to only a single national laboratory to obtain improved fee-for-service pricing; we may cease to be a contracted provider to a health plan. some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and requiring preauthorization of certain testing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. the increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. the aca included provisions, including regarding the creation of healthcare exchanges, that may encourage health insurance plans to increase exclusive contracting. government payers and third parties, including health plans, may not recognize the value of, or compensate or reimburse us for, new and innovative solutions. government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. in 2017, cms issued a draft national coverage policy for next-generation sequencing cancer panels. the draft policy, were it finalized without change, would effect a de facto requirement that each laboratory test using next generation sequencing technology would need to be approved or cleared by the fda before it is covered by medicare. third parties, including health plans, have not announced any change in approach to coverage for next-generation sequencing cancer panels. the american medical association cpt editorial panel is continuing its process of establishing new billing codes to replace codes that describe procedures used in performing molecular testing and toxicology testing. the adoption of these codes on certain occasions has led, and could continue to lead, to limited coverage decisions, payment denials or new procedures or conditions for payment. payment levels for many new codes remain largely unresolved and healthcare providers continue to address implementation of the new codes. these steps may discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. it is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. 37 table of contents business development activities are inherently risky, and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the fda; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our 38 table of contents business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue aggressive enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantial funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. in addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services; and/or injury to our reputation. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives. our business could be adversely impacted by the fda's approach to regulation. the fda has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, software, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the u.s. a number of tests we develop internally are offered as ldts. the fda has claimed regulatory authority over all ldts, but has stated that it exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most ldts performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. pursuant to the 21st century cures act, the fda has issued guidance regarding the regulation of clinical decision support software, which may be used in, or in connection with, ldts. the guidance has created uncertainty regarding whether fda approval of certain tests is required. in 2017, the fda published a "discussion document" providing its views on legislative alternatives to regulate ldts. new legislation could significantly impact the clinical laboratory testing business, including by increasing or modifying the regulation of ldts, hindering our ability to develop and market new services, causing an increase in the cost of our services, delaying our ability to introduce new tests or hindering our ability to perform testing. failure to accurately bill for our services, or to comply with applicable laws relating to government healthcare programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for diagnostic information services is complex and subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, clinicians, hospitals and employer groups. the majority of billing and related operations for our company are being provided by a third party under the company's oversight. failure to accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs may result in various consequences, including: (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. 39 table of contents failure in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities or otherwise adversely impact our business. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. it systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, system conversion or standardization initiatives, human acts and natural disasters. despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to unauthorized tampering, cyber attack or other security breach. unauthorized persons may seek to obtain intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our it systems. in december 2016, we reported that an internet application on our it network had been the target of an external cyber attack, resulting in the theft of certain patient data. the accessed data did not include social security numbers, credit card information, or insurance and other financial information, and there is no indication that patient data has been misused in any way. when the intrusion was discovered, we immediately took steps to stop any further unauthorized activity. we may be subject to litigation and governmental investigation, and may suffer reputational damage, as a result of the data breach, which could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition to the data breach reported in december 2016, our it systems from time to time have experienced other attacks, viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, but each was mitigated. although none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the company's it systems, materially disrupted the company's performance of its business or, to the company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data, there can be no assurance that we will be able to similarly mitigate future attacks, viruses or intrusions. we have taken, and continue to take, precautionary measures to reduce the risk of, better detect and respond to future cyber threats, and prevent or minimize vulnerabilities in our it systems, including the loss or theft of intellectual property and other confidential information that we house on our systems. in addition, we collaborate with government agencies regarding potential cyber threats and have worked with a leading cyber security firm to evaluate and strengthen our systems. however, cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers, compromise intellectual property or confidential information or otherwise adversely impact our business. there can be no assurances that our precautionary measures will prevent or successfully defend against cyber threats that could have a significant impact on our business. failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our advanced testing capabilities, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our solutions or services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: 40 table of contents cease developing, performing or selling solutions or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or re-engineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new, more cost-effective solutions that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by clinicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing. further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits. some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services, including specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists, have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site. hospitals also are internalizing clinical laboratory testing, including some non-routine and advanced testing. internalization of testing may reduce demand for services previously referred to outside service providers, such as the company. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $3.8 billion of debt outstanding. except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our debt from standard and poor's, moody's investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. we may lose, or fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees ( e.g. , pathologists). failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the appropriate standard of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. the services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. 41 table of contents negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. our operations and reputation may be impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we generate or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. if we do not adequately safeguard that information (including in compliance with the requirements of the european union general data protection regulation beginning in may 2018) and it were to become available to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. we may be subject to litigation and governmental investigation, and may suffer reputational damage, as a result of a data breach, which could have an adverse impact on our business. we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. although we conduct most of our business in the united states, our international operations increase our exposure to the inherent risks of doing business in international markets. depending on the market, these risks include without limitation: changes in the local economic environment; political instability; social changes; intellectual property legal protections and remedies; trade regulations; procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of services; exchange controls; attracting and retaining qualified employees; local market practices; export and import controls; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; changes in local laws or regulations; and potentially longer payment and collection cycles. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions and to overcome challenges based on differing languages and cultures. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may temporarily interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers. some proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages. 42 table of contents cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may, believe, will, expect, project, estimate, anticipate, plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals, physicians and others. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers and payers. (c) a decline in economic conditions. (d) impact of changes in payment mix, including any shift from fee-for-service to discounted, capitated or bundled fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of clinical testing or innovative solutions, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, competitive bidding, and an increase in the practice of negotiating for exclusive arrangements that involve aggressively priced capitated or fee-for-service payments by health insurers or other payers. (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from our compliance with medicare and medicaid administrative policies and requirements of third-party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of payors to provide diagnosis codes for many commonly ordered tests and the possibility that third-party payers will increasingly adopt similar requirements; (2) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance beneficiary notice form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (3) increased challenges in operating as a non-contracted provider with respect to health plans; (4) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units; and (5) the impact of increased prior authorization programs. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (j) changes in and complexity of federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our business performance tools and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the diagnostic information services industry or us. (n) computer or other it system or it security failures that affect our ability to perform testing, report test results or properly bill customers, or result in the disclosure of confidential information, including potential failures resulting from implementing common it systems and other system conversions, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts (such as electronic break-ins or computer viruses) or natural disasters. (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical testing, including technology changes that lead to the development of more convenient or cost-effective testing, or testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and 43 table of contents (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) failure to properly bill for our services or to obtain appropriate payments for services that we do bill. (t) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's, moody's investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (u) inability to hire or retain qualified or key senior management personnel. (v) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. (w) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new services or solutions or new uses of existing tests. (x) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system and healthcare delivery, including those stemming from the aca (or its repeal, amendment or replacement), pama, trends in utilization of the healthcare system and increased patient financial responsibility for services. (y) results and consequences of governmental inquiries. (z) difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our strategic plan. (aa) the impact of informatics on our industry and the ability of our company to adapt to that impact. (bb) political, legal, operational and other changes and challenges in international markets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 30 cautionary factors that may affect future results 38 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 38 . the u.s. healthcare system is evolving and medical laboratory testing market fundamentals are changing, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the passage of the aca in 2010. the aca established the center for medicare and medicaid innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the aca provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the aca also permits the establishment of acos. certain aspects of the aca have been repealed, delayed or modified. the scope and timing of any further legislation to repeal, amend, replace, or reform the rest of the aca is uncertain, but if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the u.s. healthcare system. in addition, uncertainty regarding the status of the aca prior to any such repeal, amendment, replacement or reform could create uncertainty generally in the healthcare market. a federal court has recently determined that the aca is unconstitutional; that ruling has been appealed. uncertainty about court rulings regarding the aca could add to uncertainty in the healthcare market. significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading the united states clinical testing industry , beginning on page 13 . for example, acos, idns and patient-centered medical homes have grown as a means to deliver patient care. value-based reimbursement is increasing; cms has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved. patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased responsibility for payment for, their healthcare. healthcare industry participants are consolidating. healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers ( e.g ., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues ( e.g. , retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies ( e.g. , telemedicine, digital pathology). utilization of the healthcare system is being influenced by several factors and may result in a decline in the demand for diagnostic information services. in addition, we believe that medical laboratory testing market fundamentals are changing. we believe that pama-driven reimbursement pressure will induce structural change; that health plan approaches to laboratory testing services will reduce variation in spending on these services and benefit providers like quest; and that growing consumerization in healthcare is sharpening focus on price disparities. we expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. 30 table of contents the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. the clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. in recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, increasing the percentage of physician practices owned by hospitals. increased hospital ownership of physician practices may enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. the formation of acos and idns, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. the diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. digital pathology is an example of this. competitors also may compete on the basis of new service offerings. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. pursuant to pama, which was implemented in 2018, cms promulgated revised reimbursement rate schedules for 2018 - 2020 for clinical laboratory testing services provided under medicare. reimbursement rates for clinical laboratory testing were reduced in 2018 and are scheduled to be reduced again by approximately 10% in each of 2019 and 2020. pama calls for further revision of the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule for years after 2020, based on future surveys of market rates; reimbursement rate reduction from 2021-23 is capped by pama at 15% annually. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services that are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the aca includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has expanded its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. states have mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. in addition, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives. these initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. 31 table of contents health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. examples include increased use of prior authorization requirements and increased denial of coverage for services. since the passage of aca, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. we expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. acos and idns also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and requiring preauthorization of certain testing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. the increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. government payers and third parties, including health plans, may not recognize the value of, or compensate or reimburse us for, new and innovative solutions. government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. in 2018, cms finalized a national coverage determination for next-generation sequencing cancer panels. under the determination, tests that gain fda approval or clearance as an in vitro companion diagnostic will automatically receive full coverage, provided other coverage criteria are met. coverage determinations for other diagnostic laboratory tests using next-generation sequencing will be made by medicare administrative contractors. clinical laboratory services providers are discussing this determination and others with cms and medicare administrative contractors to attempt to ensure that such providers can continue to provide these essential diagnostic services, but those discussions may not be successful. in response to requests from payers to have a strategy to report a single or at most a few codes to describe procedures used to perform molecular and toxicology testing, the american medical association cpt editorial panel has established and replaced billing codes used to report those procedures. the adoption of these revised codes has resulted in limited coverage decisions on certain occasions, payment denials by some payers, and new requirements for documentation to facilitate payment. while some payers have adopted the new payment methods, others have not yet modified their systems and ask that laboratories continue to report their services using the previous reporting strategies, when those codes still exist. these steps may discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. our business operations and reputation may be materially impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we collect, generate, process or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. if we do use or not adequately safeguard that information in compliance with applicable requirements under federal, state and international laws, or if it were disclosed to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be materially impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. in the event of a data security breach, we may be subject to notification obligations, litigation and governmental investigation or sanctions, and may suffer reputational damage, which could have an adverse impact on our business. we are subject to laws and regulations regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain healthcare and personal information, including: (a) the federal health insurance portability and accountability act and the regulations thereunder, which establish (i) a complex regulatory framework including requirements for safeguarding protected health information and (ii) comprehensive federal standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information; (b) state laws; and (c) the european union's general data protection regulation. 32 table of contents our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. it is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. business development activities are inherently risky and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. each acquisition involves the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired companies, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining companies may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other companies or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the fda; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. 33 table of contents these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue aggressive enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantial funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. in addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreased demand for our services; and/or injury to our reputation. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. moreover, even when an investigation is resolved favorably, the process may be time-consuming and the legal costs and diversion of management focus may be extensive. changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives. our business could be adversely impacted by the fda's approach to regulation. the fda has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, software, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the u.s. a number of tests we develop internally are offered as ldts. the fda has claimed regulatory authority over all ldts, but has stated that it exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most ldts performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. as the fda moves to regulate more clinical laboratory testing, its approach to regulation is impacting industry practices and participants, new competitors may enter the industry, and competition may come in new forms. in late 2018, legislation was introduced in congress that would enable the fda to regulate ldts, in vitro diagnostics, software and other items used in the diagnosis of disease. if this legislation were to become law, the fda could regulate diagnostic tests and components and platforms used as part of these tests. if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the clinical laboratory testing industry, including regulating ldts in new ways and creating avenues of opportunity and competition regarding clinical laboratory testing. new competitors may enter the industry, and competition may come in new forms. pursuant to the 21st century cures act, the fda issued guidance regarding its position on the regulation of clinical decision software, which may be used in, or in connection with, ldts. the guidance attempts to clarify whether fda approval of certain software is required. in january 2019 the fda issued a draft guidance on a pre-certification pilot program to help software developers have a speedier and less restrictive path to clearance or approval of their software. 34 table of contents failure to accurately bill for our services, or to comply with applicable laws relating to government healthcare programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for diagnostic information services is complex and subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, clinicians, hospitals and employer groups. the majority of billing and related operations for our company are being provided by a third party under the company's oversight. failure to accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs may result in various consequences, including: (1) exclusion from participation in medicare/medicaid programs; (2) asset forfeitures; (3) civil and criminal fines and penalties; and (4) the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business. hardware and software failures or delays in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions or otherwise, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities or otherwise adversely impact our business. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. a failure or delay in our it systems could impede our ability to serve our customers and patients and protect their confidential personal data. despite redundancy and backup measures and precautions that we have implemented, our it systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, system conversion or standardization initiatives, human acts and natural disasters. these issues can also arise as a result from failures by third parties with whom we do business and for which we have limited control. any disruption or failure of our it systems could have a material impact on our ability to serve our customers and patients, including negatively affecting our reputation in the marketplace. despite the security measures we have implemented, our it systems may be subject to unauthorized tampering, cyber attack or other security breach. our it systems are also subject to potential cyber attacks or other security breaches. these attacks, if successful, could result in shutdowns or significant disruptions of our it systems and/or in unauthorized persons misappropriating intellectual property and other confidential information, including patient data that we obtain, transmit and store on and through our it systems. external actors may develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs, including those that target our employees, designed to attack our it systems or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities, such as electronic spamming, phishing, spear phishing or similar tactics. as a result of the difficulty in detecting many of these attacks, intrusions and breaches, failures or losses may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered or rectified, which could further increase these costs and consequences. in december 2016, we reported that an internet application on our it network had been the target of an external cyber attack, resulting in the theft of certain patient data. the accessed data did not include social security numbers, credit card information, or insurance and other financial information, and there is no indication that patient data has been misused in any way. when the intrusion was discovered, we immediately took steps to stop any further unauthorized activity. in addition to the data breach reported in december 2016, our it systems from time to time have experienced other attacks, viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, but each was mitigated. none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the company's it systems, materially disrupted the company's performance of its business or, to the company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data. although the company has robust security measures implemented, which are monitored and routinely tested both by internal resources and external parties, cyber threats continue to evolve and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched against a potential target. there can be no assurance that the company can anticipate all such evolving future attacks, viruses or intrusions, implement adequate preventative measures, nor remediate any security vulnerabilities. such breaches could expose our it systems to attack, which could result in major disruption of our business, and compromise our customer's confidential information, result in litigation and potential liability for the company, government investigation, significant damage to our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our business. any mitigation or remediation efforts that we undertake may require expenditures of significant resources and the diversion of the attention of management. 35 table of contents third parties to whom we outsource certain of our services or functions, or with whom we interface, may store our confidential, patient data or other confidential information, are also subject to the risks outlined above. a breach or attack affecting these third parties could also harm our business, results of operations and reputation. we have taken, and continue to take, precautionary measures to reduce the risk of, and detect and respond to, future cyber threats, and prevent or minimize vulnerabilities in our it systems, including the loss or theft of intellectual property, patient data or other confidential information that we obtain and store on our systems. in addition, we collaborate with government agencies regarding potential cyber threats and have worked with a leading cyber security firm to evaluate and strengthen our systems. there can be no assurances that our precautionary measures will prevent, contain or successfully defend against cyber or information security threats that could have a significant impact on our business. failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our advanced testing capabilities, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our solutions or services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: cease developing, performing or selling solutions or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or re-engineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new technologies may impact the healthcare industry, and the development of new, more cost-effective solutions that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or clinicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. for example, digital pathology is an emerging technology that may change the practice of pathology. information technology that includes self-learning or "artificial intelligence" features is growing and may impact the healthcare industry. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by clinicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing. further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits. some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services, including specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists, have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site. hospitals also are internalizing clinical laboratory testing, 36 table of contents including some non-routine and advanced testing. internalization of testing may reduce demand for services previously referred to outside service providers, such as the company. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $3.9 billion of debt outstanding. except for operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our public debt from standard and poor's, moody's investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. we may lose, or fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees ( e.g. , pathologists). failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the appropriate standard of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. the services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. our international operations increase our exposure to risks inherent in doing business in non-u.s. markets, which may vary by market and include: intellectual property legal protections and remedies; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of services; and challenges based on differing languages and cultures. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, and to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. 37 table of contents adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers. some proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. the proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages. cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may, believe, will, expect, project, estimate, anticipate, plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals, physicians and others. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers, including payers and patients. (c) a decline in economic conditions. (d) impact of changes in payment mix, including increased patient financial responsibility and any shift from fee-for-service to discounted, capitated or bundled fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of clinical testing or innovative solutions, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, unilateral recoupment of amounts allegedly owed and competitive bidding. (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from compliance with policies and requirements imposed by medicare, medicaid and other third-party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of government and other payers to provide diagnosis codes and other information for many tests; (2) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance consent form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (3) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units or ordering frequency of same; and (4) the impact of increased prior authorization programs. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. (j) changes in and complexity of federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our business performance tools and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the diagnostic information services industry or us. (n) failure of the company to maintain, defend and secure its financial, accounting, technology, customer data and other operational systems from cyberattacks, it system outages, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts and failure of the systems of third parties upon which the company relies. (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical testing, including technology changes that lead to the development of more convenient or cost-effective testing, or testing to be performed outside of a 38 table of contents commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) the complexity of billing and revenue recognition for clinical laboratory testing. (t) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's, moody's investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (u) inability to hire or retain qualified or key senior management personnel. (v) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and health pandemics, which could affect our customers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. (w) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new services or solutions or new uses of existing tests. (x) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system (including the medical laboratory testing market) and healthcare delivery, including those stemming from the aca (or its repeal, amendment or replacement), pama, trends in utilization of the healthcare system and increased patient financial responsibility for services. (y) results and consequences of governmental inquiries. (z) difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our strategic plan. (aa) the impact of informatics on our industry and the ability of our company to adapt to that impact. (bb) failure to adequately operationalize appropriate controls around use of our data, including risk of non-compliance with privacy law requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.risk factors 28 cautionary factors that may affect future results 37 risk factors you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this report, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of our securities. the risks below are not the only ones that we face. additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently deem immaterial, may also negatively impact us. our business, consolidated financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability, reputation or cash flows could be materially impacted by any of these factors. this report also includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. our results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below and elsewhere. see cautionary factors that may affect future results on page 37 . 28 table of contents the u.s. healthcare system is evolving and medical laboratory testing market fundamentals are changing, and our business could be adversely impacted if we fail to adapt. the u.s. healthcare system is evolving, in part in response to the aca. the aca established the center for medicare and medicaid innovation to examine alternative payment methodologies and conduct demonstration programs. the aca provided for extensive health insurance reforms, including the elimination of pre-existing condition exclusions and other limitations on coverage, fixed percentages on medical loss ratios, expansion in medicaid and other programs, employer mandates, individual mandates, creation of state and regional health insurance exchanges, and tax subsidies for individuals to help cover the cost of individual insurance coverage. the aca also permits the establishment of acos. certain aspects of the aca have been repealed, delayed or modified. the scope and timing of any further legislation to repeal, amend, replace, or reform the rest of the aca is uncertain, but if such legislation were to become law, it could have a significant impact on the u.s. healthcare system. in addition, uncertainty regarding the status of the aca prior to any such repeal, amendment, replacement or reform could create uncertainty generally in the healthcare market. several federal courts have recently issued determinations that portions of the aca are unconstitutional; those rulings are net yet final. uncertainty about court rulings regarding the aca could add to uncertainty in the healthcare market. significant change is taking place in the healthcare system, including as discussed above under the heading the clinical testing industry , beginning on page 13 . for example, value-based reimbursement is increasing ( e.g ., unitedhealthcare's preferred lab network); cms has set goals for value-based reimbursement to be achieved. patients are encouraged to take increased interest in and responsibility for, and often are bearing increased responsibility for payment for, their healthcare. healthcare industry participants are evolving and consolidating. healthcare services increasingly are being provided by non-traditional providers ( e.g ., physician assistants), in non-traditional venues ( e.g. , retail medical clinics, urgent care centers) and using new technologies ( e.g. , telemedicine, digital pathology). utilization of the healthcare system is being influenced by several factors and may result in a decline in the demand for diagnostic information services. in addition, we believe that clinical testing market fundamentals are changing. we believe that pama-driven reimbursement pressure is negatively impacting access to care and hurting the clinical testing industry, and remains a catalyst for structural change in the market. we also believe that our expanded health plan network access and increased health plan focus on driving better value in laboratory testing services will reduce variation in spending on these services. we also believe that ongoing consumerization in healthcare, with increased cost being borne by consumers, is sharpening focus on price disparities. we expect that the evolution of the healthcare industry will continue, and that industry change is likely to be extensive. the clinical testing business is highly competitive, and if we fail to provide an appropriately priced level of service or otherwise fail to compete effectively it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. the clinical testing business remains a fragmented and highly competitive industry. we primarily compete with three types of clinical testing providers: other commercial clinical laboratories, hospital-affiliated laboratories and physician-office laboratories. we also compete with other providers, including anatomic pathology practices and large physician group practices. hospitals generally maintain on-site laboratories to perform testing on their patients (inpatient or outpatient). in addition, many hospitals compete with commercial clinical laboratories for outreach (non-hospital patients) testing. hospitals may seek to leverage their relationships with community clinicians and encourage the clinicians to send their outreach testing to the hospital's laboratory. as a result of this affiliation between hospitals and community clinicians, we compete against hospital-affiliated laboratories primarily based on quality and scope of service as well as pricing. in addition, hospitals that own physician practices may require the practices to refer testing to the hospital's laboratory. in recent years, there has been a trend of hospitals acquiring physician practices, increasing the percentage of physician practices owned by hospitals. increased hospital ownership of physician practices may enhance clinician ties to hospital-affiliated laboratories and may strengthen their competitive position. the formation of acos and idns, and their approach to contracts with healthcare providers, in addition to the impact of informatics, also may increase competition to provide diagnostic information services. the diagnostic information services industry also is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. competitors may compete using advanced technology, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. digital pathology, still in an emerging state, is an example of this. competitors also may compete on the basis of new service offerings. competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices; (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. 29 table of contents government payers, such as medicare and medicaid, have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by government payers to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for diagnostic information services. one example of this is increased use of prior authorization requirements. we expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. pursuant to pama, cms promulgated revised reimbursement rate schedules for 2018 - 2020 for clinical laboratory testing services provided under medicare. reimbursement rates for many clinical laboratory tests were reduced in 2018 and 2019 and are scheduled to be reduced again by approximately 10% in 2020 (rates, and reductions, vary by test). pama calls for further revision of the medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule for years after 2020, based on future surveys of market rates; reimbursement rate reduction from 2021-23 is capped by pama at 15% annually. in late 2019, the lab act became law. the lab act provides an opportunity for reforms to pama by delaying pama's next data collection and reporting period until january 1, 2021 and by ordering a study to determine ways to improve future collection of more representative market rate data under pama. in addition, cms has adopted policies limiting or excluding coverage for clinical tests that we perform. we also provide physician services that are reimbursed by medicare under a physician fee schedule, which is subject to adjustment on an annual basis. medicaid reimbursement varies by state and is subject to administrative and billing requirements and budget pressures. the aca includes further provisions that are designed to control utilization and payment levels. in addition, over the last several years, the federal government has expanded its contracts with private health insurance plans for medicare beneficiaries, called medicare advantage programs, and has encouraged such beneficiaries to switch from the traditional programs to the private programs. there has been growth of health insurance plans offering medicare advantage programs, and of beneficiary enrollment in these programs. states have mandated that medicaid beneficiaries enroll in private managed care arrangements. in addition, state budget pressures have encouraged states to consider several courses of action that may impact our business, such as delaying payments, reducing reimbursement, restricting coverage eligibility, denying claims and service coverage restrictions. from time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding could be used to provide clinical testing services for medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. congress periodically considers cost-saving initiatives. these initiatives have included coinsurance for clinical testing services, co-payments for clinical testing and further laboratory fee schedule reductions. health plans and other third parties have taken steps to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of health services, including clinical testing services. we face efforts by non-governmental third-party payers, including health plans, to reduce utilization of and reimbursement for clinical testing services. examples include increased use of prior authorization requirements and increased denial of coverage for services. since the passage of aca, there is increased market activity regarding alternative payment models, including bundled payment models. we expect continuing efforts by third-party payers, including in their rules, practices and policies, to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical testing services. acos and idns also may undertake efforts to reduce utilization of, or reimbursement for, diagnostic information services. the healthcare industry has experienced a trend of consolidation among health insurance plans, resulting in fewer but larger insurance plans with significant bargaining power to negotiate fee arrangements with healthcare providers, including clinical testing providers. these health plans, and independent physician associations, may demand that clinical testing providers accept discounted fee structures or assume all or a portion of the financial risk associated with providing testing services to their members through capitated payment arrangements. some health plans also are reviewing test coding, evaluating coverage decisions and requiring preauthorization of certain testing. there are also an increasing number of patients enrolling in consumer driven products and high deductible plans that involve greater patient cost-sharing. the increased consolidation among health plans also has increased pricing transparency and bargaining power and the potential adverse impact of ceasing to be a contracted provider with any such insurer. government payers and third parties, including health plans, may not recognize the value of, or compensate or reimburse us for, new and innovative solutions. 30 table of contents government payers and third parties, including health plans, are taking steps to reduce utilization of, and reimbursement for, some new and innovative healthcare solutions, including new tests and other solutions that we may offer. in response to requests from payers to have a strategy to report a single or at most a few codes to describe procedures used to perform molecular and toxicology testing, the american medical association cpt editorial panel has established and replaced billing codes used to report those procedures. the adoption of these revised codes has resulted in limited coverage decisions on certain occasions, new requirements for documentation to facilitate payment from certain payers and increased payment denials. while some payers have adopted the new payment methods, others have not yet modified their systems and ask that laboratories continue to report their services using the previous reporting strategies, when those codes still exist. these steps may discourage innovation and access to innovative solutions that we may offer. our business operations and reputation may be materially impaired if we do not comply with privacy laws or information security policies. in our business, we collect, generate, process or maintain sensitive information, such as patient data and other personal information. if we do use or not adequately safeguard that information in compliance with applicable requirements under federal, state and international laws, or if it were disclosed to persons or entities that should not have access to it, our business could be materially impaired, our reputation could suffer and we could be subject to fines, penalties and litigation. in the event of a data security breach, we may be subject to notification obligations, litigation and governmental investigation or sanctions, and may suffer reputational damage, which could have an adverse impact on our business. we are subject to laws and regulations regarding protecting the security and privacy of certain healthcare and personal information, including: (a) the federal health insurance portability and accountability act and the regulations thereunder, which establish (i) a complex regulatory framework including requirements for safeguarding protected health information and (ii) comprehensive federal standards regarding the uses and disclosures of protected health information; (b) state laws, including the california consumer privacy act; and (c) the european union's general data protection regulation. our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to continue to improve our efficiency. it is important that we continue to improve our efficiency to enable us to mitigate the impact on our profitability of steps taken by government payers and health insurers to reduce the utilization and reimbursement of healthcare services, including diagnostic information services. business development activities are inherently risky and integrating our operations with businesses we acquire may be difficult. we plan selectively to enhance our business from time to time through business development activities, such as acquisitions, licensing arrangements, investments and alliances. however, these plans are subject to the availability of appropriate opportunities and competition from other companies seeking similar opportunities. moreover, the success of any such effort may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity, and to integrate it into our business. the success of our strategic alliances depends not only on our contributions and capabilities, but also on the property, resources, efforts and skills contributed by our strategic partners. further, disputes may arise with strategic partners, due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interests. acquisitions are not all the same ( e.g. , asset acquisitions differ from acquisitions of equity interests); different acquisitions offer different risks. acquisitions may involve the integration of a separate company that has different systems, processes, policies and cultures. integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks including the diversion of management's attention to the assimilation of the operations of assets or businesses we have acquired, difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the realization of potential operating synergies, the assimilation and retention of the personnel of the acquired businesses, challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results. the process of combining acquisitions may be disruptive to our businesses and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, such businesses as a result of the following difficulties, among others: loss of key customers or employees; difficulty in standardizing information and other systems; difficulty in consolidating facilities and infrastructure; failure to maintain the quality or timeliness of services that our company has historically provided; 31 table of contents diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of our company as a result of the need to deal with the foregoing disruptions and difficulties; and the added costs of dealing with such disruptions. if we are unable successfully to integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our business and our growth strategies could be negatively affected. even if we are able to successfully complete the integration of the operations of other assets or businesses we may acquire in the future, we may not be able to realize all or any of the benefits that we expect to result from such integration, either in monetary terms or in a timely manner. we are subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements governing our activities, and we may face substantial fines and penalties, and our business activities may be impacted, if we fail to comply. our business is subject to or impacted by extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations in the united states (including at both the federal and state levels) and the other jurisdictions in which we engage in business. while we seek to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable laws, many of the laws and regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, including many of those relating to: billing and reimbursement of clinical testing; certification or licensure of clinical laboratories; the anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations; the laws and regulations administered by the fda; the corporate practice of medicine; operational, personnel and quality requirements intended to ensure that clinical testing services are accurate, reliable and timely; physician fee splitting; relationships with physicians and hospitals; safety and health of laboratory employees; and handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. these laws and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations, including our pricing and/or billing practices. we may not be able to maintain, renew or secure required permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals needed to operate our business or commercialize our services. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or if we fail to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims. if any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation could be damaged and important business relationships with third parties could be adversely affected. we regularly receive requests for information, and occasionally subpoenas, from governmental authorities. we also are subject from time to time to qui tam claims brought by former employees or other whistleblowers. the federal and state governments continue aggressive enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel substantial funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. in addition, the government has substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed for our services, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these types of investigations and related litigation can result in: diversion of management time and attention; expenditure of large amounts of cash on legal fees, costs and payment of damages; increases to our administrative, billing or other operating costs; limitations on our ability to continue some of our operations; enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages; decreases to the amount of reimbursement related to diagnostic information services performed; adverse affects to important business relationships with third parties; decreased demand for our services; and/or injury to our reputation. 32 table of contents changes in applicable laws and regulations may result in existing practices becoming more restricted, or subject our existing or proposed services to additional costs, delay, modification, withdrawal or reconsideration. such changes also could require us to modify our business objectives. our business could be adversely impacted by the fda's approach to regulation. the fda has regulatory responsibility over, among other areas, instruments, software, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories to perform diagnostic testing in the u.s. a number of tests we develop internally are offered as ldts. the fda has claimed regulatory authority over all ldts, but has stated that it exercised enforcement discretion with regard to most ldts performed by high complexity clia-certified laboratories. as the fda moves to regulate more clinical laboratory testing, its approach to regulation is impacting industry practices and participants, new competitors may enter the industry, and competition may come in new forms. legislation introduced in congress would enable the fda to regulate ldts, in vitro diagnostics, software and other items used in the diagnosis of disease. if the legislation becomes law, the fda could regulate diagnostic tests and components and platforms used as part of these tests. if the legislation becomes law, it could have a significant impact on the clinical laboratory testing industry, including regulating ldts in new ways, while creating avenues of opportunity and competition regarding clinical laboratory testing. new competitors may enter the industry, and competition may come in new forms. pursuant to the 21st century cures act, the fda issued final guidance regarding its position on the regulation of clinical decision software, which may be used in connection with ldts. the guidance attempts to clarify whether fda approval of certain software is required. in january 2019 the fda issued a draft guidance on a pre-certification pilot program to help software developers have a speedier and less restrictive path to clearance or approval of their software. failure to accurately bill for our services, or to comply with applicable laws relating to government healthcare programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business. billing for diagnostic information services is complex and subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various payers, such as patients, insurance companies, medicare, medicaid, clinicians, hospitals and employer groups. the majority of billing and related operations for our company are being provided by a third party under the company's oversight. failure to accurately bill for our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, failure to comply with applicable laws relating to billing government healthcare programs may result in various consequences, including: civil and criminal fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur additional liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. certain violations of these laws may also provide the basis for a civil remedy under the federal false claims act, including fines and damages of up to three times the amount claimed. the qui tam provisions of the federal false claims act and similar provision in certain state false claims acts allow private individuals to bring lawsuits against healthcare companies on behalf of government payers, private payers and/or patients alleging inappropriate billing practices. although we believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion. the federal or state government may bring claims based on our current practices, which we believe are lawful. the federal and state governments have substantial leverage in negotiating settlements since the amount of potential damages and fines far exceeds the rates at which we are reimbursed, and the government has the remedy of excluding a non-compliant provider from participation in the medicare and medicaid programs. we believe that federal and state governments continue aggressive enforcement efforts against perceived healthcare fraud. legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse provide government enforcement personnel with substantial funding, powers, penalties and remedies to pursue suspected cases of fraud and abuse. 33 table of contents hardware and software failures or delays in our information technology systems, including failures resulting from our systems conversions or otherwise, could disrupt our operations and cause the loss of confidential information, customers and business opportunities or otherwise adversely impact our business. it systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including clinical testing, test reporting, billing, customer service, logistics and management of medical data. our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our it systems. a failure or delay in our it systems could impede our ability to serve our customers and patients and protect their confidential personal data. despite redundancy and backup measures and precautions that we have implemented, our it systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions and shutdown from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, system conversion or standardization initiatives, human acts and natural disasters. these issues can also arise as a result from failures by third parties with whom we do business and for which we have limited control. any disruption or failure of our it systems could have a material impact on our ability to serve our customers and patients, including negatively affecting our reputation in the marketplace. the it systems that we rely on may be subject to unauthorized tampering, cyberattack or other security breach. our it systems are subject to potential cyberattacks, tampering or other security breaches. these attacks, if successful, could result in shutdowns or significant disruptions of our it systems and/or in unauthorized persons misappropriating intellectual property and other confidential information, including patient data that we obtain, transmit and store on and through our it systems. external actors may develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs, including those that target our employees, designed to attack our it systems or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities, such as electronic spamming, phishing, spear phishing or similar tactics. as a result of the difficulty in detecting many of these attacks, intrusions and breaches, failures or losses may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered or rectified, which could further increase these costs and consequences. in december 2016, we reported that an internet application on our it network had been the target of an external cyberattack, resulting in the theft of certain patient data. the accessed data did not include social security numbers, credit card information, or insurance and other financial information, and there is no indication that patient data has been misused in any way. when the intrusion was discovered, we immediately took steps to stop any further unauthorized activity. from time to time, our it systems have experienced other attacks, viruses, attempted intrusions or similar problems, but each was mitigated. none materially disrupted, interrupted, damaged or shutdown the company's it systems, materially disrupted the company's performance of its business or, to the company's knowledge, resulted in material unauthorized access to data. in addition, certain third parties to whom we outsource certain of our services or functions, or with whom we interface, store our confidential patient data or other confidential information, as well as those third parties' providers, are also subject to the risks outlined above. a breach or attack affecting these third parties could also harm our business, results of operations and reputation and subject us to liability. on june 3, 2019, the company reported that retrieval-masters creditors bureau, inc./american medical collection agency ( amca ), informed the company and optum360 llc, which provides revenue management services to the company, about a data security incident involving amca (the amca data security incident ). amca (which provided debt collection services for optum360) informed the company and optum360 that amca had learned that an unauthorized user had access to amca's system between august 1, 2018 and march 30, 2019. amca first informed the company of the amca data security incident on may 14, 2019. amca's affected system included financial information ( e.g ., credit card numbers and bank account information), medical information and other personal information ( e.g ., social security numbers). test results were not included. neither optum360's nor the company's systems or databases were involved in the incident. amca has also informed us that information pertaining to other laboratories' customers was also affected. 34 table of contents although the company has robust security measures implemented, which are monitored and routinely tested both by internal resources and external parties, cyber threats against us or our third party providers continue to evolve and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched against a potential target. there can be no assurance that the company or its third party providers can anticipate all such evolving future attacks, viruses or intrusions, implement adequate preventative measures, nor remediate any security vulnerabilities. such breaches could expose our or our third party providers' it systems to attack, which could result in major disruption of our business, and compromise our customer's confidential information, result in litigation and potential liability for the company, government investigation, significant damage to our reputation or otherwise adversely affect our business. any mitigation or remediation efforts that we undertake may require expenditures of significant resources and the diversion of the attention of management. we have taken, and continue to take, precautionary measures to reduce the risk of, and detect and respond to, future cyber threats, and prevent or minimize vulnerabilities in our it systems, including the loss or theft of intellectual property, patient data or other confidential information that we obtain and store on our systems. we also have taken, and will continue to take, measures to assess the cybersecurity protections used by our third-party providers. in addition, we collaborate with government agencies regarding potential cyber threats and have worked with a leading cyber security firm to evaluate and strengthen our systems. there can be no assurances that our precautionary measures or measures used by our third-party providers will prevent, contain or successfully defend against cyber or information security threats that could have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and reputation and subject us to liability. failure to develop, or acquire licenses for, new tests, technology and services could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our solutions or operate our business or increase our costs. in addition, they could introduce new tests, technologies or services that may result in a decrease in the demand for our services or cause us to reduce the prices of our services. our success in continuing to introduce new solutions, technology and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license new and improved technologies on favorable terms. we may be unable to develop or introduce new solutions or services. other companies or individuals, including our competitors, may obtain patents or other property rights on tests or processes that we may be performing, that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. we also may be unable to continue to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements, and arrangements that we do conclude may not yield commercially successful clinical tests. if we are unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, our research and development costs may increase as a result. in addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce, or license, new solutions, technology and services to expand our advanced testing capabilities, our services may become outdated when compared with our competition. we may be unable to obtain, maintain or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be subject to intellectual property litigation that could adversely impact our business. we may be unable to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our solutions or services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. in addition, we may be subject to intellectual property litigation and we may be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, which could force us to do one or more of the following: cease developing, performing or selling solutions or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right; redesign or re-engineer our tests; change our business processes; or pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys' fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement held to be willful. the development of new technologies (including artificial intelligence technologies) may impact the healthcare industry, and the development of new, more cost-effective solutions that can be performed by our customers or by patients, and the continued internalization of testing by hospitals or clinicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. the diagnostic information services industry is faced with changing technology and new product introductions, including technology that enables more convenient or cost-effective testing. for example, digital pathology is an emerging technology that may change the practice of pathology. information technology that includes self-learning or "artificial intelligence" features is growing and may impact the healthcare industry. 35 table of contents competitors also may offer testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by clinicians in their offices; (2) complex testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories; and (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of outside providers. advances in technology also may lead to the need for less frequent testing. further, diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the fda for home use are automatically deemed to be waived tests under clia and may be performed by patients in their homes; test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to patients of such test kits. some traditional customers for anatomic pathology services, including specialty physicians that generate biopsies through surgical procedures, such as dermatologists, gastroenterologists, urologists and oncologists, are consolidating, have added in-office histology labs or have retained pathologists to read cases on site. hospitals also are internalizing clinical laboratory testing, including some non-routine and advanced testing. internalization of testing may reduce demand for services previously referred to outside service providers, such as the company. our outstanding debt may impair our financial and operating flexibility. as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $4.8 billion of debt outstanding. we do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements in place or available. our debt agreements contain various restrictive covenants. these restrictions could limit our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must use a portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our debt. we have obtained ratings on our public debt from standard and poor's, moody's investor services and fitch ratings. there can be no assurance that any rating so assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if in that rating agency's judgment future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes in our company or our industry, so warrant. if such ratings are lowered, our borrowing costs could increase. changes in our credit ratings, however, do not require repayment or acceleration of any of our debt. we or our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make principal and interest payments will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. if we incur additional debt, a greater portion of our cash flows may be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations and if we do not generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. in that case, it may be more difficult, or we may be unable, to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us. as a result, we would be more vulnerable to general adverse economic, industry and capital markets conditions as well as the other risks associated with indebtedness. our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. our people are a critical resource. the supply of qualified personnel may be limited and competition for qualified employees is strong. we may lose, or fail to attract and retain, key management personnel, or qualified skilled technical or professional employees ( e.g. , pathologists). failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the appropriate standard of quality is observed in the performance of our diagnostic information services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. the provision of diagnostic information services involves certain inherent risks. the services that we provide are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. therefore, users of our services may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. negligence in performing our services can lead to injury or other adverse events. we may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our pathologists, laboratory personnel and hospital employees who are under the supervision of our hospital-based pathologists. we are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. we are subject to numerous political, legal, operational and other risks as a result of our international operations which could impact our business in many ways. our international operations increase our exposure to risks inherent in doing business in non-u.s. markets, which may vary by market and include: intellectual property legal protections and remedies; weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce contractual rights; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, 36 table of contents reimbursement and marketing of services; and challenges based on differing languages and cultures. international operations also require us to devote significant management resources to implement our controls and systems in new markets, and to comply with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-corruption laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, public health emergencies and health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism and other criminal activities. our operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, public health emergencies and health pandemics, hostilities or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities. such events may result in a decline in the number of patients who seek clinical testing services or in our employees' ability to perform their job duties. in addition, such events may interrupt our ability to transport specimens, to receive materials from our suppliers or otherwise to provide our services. adverse results in material litigation could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our client base and reputation. we are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes as to intellectual property, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and medicare or medicaid carriers. some proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. these proceedings also may result in substantial monetary damages. cautionary factors that may affect future results some statements and disclosures in this document are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified by the use of words such as may, believe, will, expect, project, estimate, anticipate, plan or continue. these forward-looking statements are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results, to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. investors are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this document. the following important factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from those projected, forecasted or estimated by us in forward-looking statements: (a) heightened competition from commercial clinical testing companies, hospitals, physicians and others. (b) increased pricing pressure from customers, including payers and patients. (c) a decline in economic conditions. (d) impact of changes in payment mix, including increased patient financial responsibility and any shift from fee-for-service to discounted, capitated or bundled fee arrangements. (e) adverse actions by government or other third-party payers, including healthcare reform that focuses on reducing healthcare costs but does not recognize the value and importance to healthcare of clinical testing or innovative solutions, unilateral reduction of fee schedules payable to us, unilateral recoupment of amounts allegedly owed and competitive bidding. (f) the impact upon our testing volume and collected revenue or general or administrative expenses resulting from compliance with policies and requirements imposed by medicare, medicaid and other third-party payers. these include: (1) the requirements of government and other payers to provide diagnosis codes and other information for many tests; (2) inability to obtain from patients a valid advance consent form for tests that cannot be billed without prior receipt of the form; (3) the impact of additional or expanded limited coverage policies and limits on the allowable number of test units or ordering frequency of same; and (4) the impact of increased prior authorization programs. (g) adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions. these include, in particular, monetary damages, loss or suspension of licenses, and/or suspension or exclusion from the medicare and medicaid programs and/or criminal penalties. (h) failure to efficiently integrate acquired businesses and to manage the costs related to any such integration, or to retain key technical, professional or management personnel. (i) denial, suspension or revocation of clia certification or other licenses for any of our clinical laboratories under the clia standards, revocation or suspension of the right to bill the medicare and medicaid programs or other adverse regulatory actions by federal, state and local agencies. 37 table of contents (j) changes in and complexity of federal, state or local laws or regulations, including changes that result in new or increased federal or state regulation of commercial clinical laboratories, tests developed by commercial clinical laboratories or other products or services that we offer or activities in which we are engaged, including regulation by the fda. (k) inability to achieve expected benefits from our acquisitions of other businesses. (l) inability to achieve additional benefits from our business performance tools and efficiency initiatives. (m) adverse publicity and news coverage about the diagnostic information services industry or us. (n) failure of the company to maintain, defend and secure its financial, accounting, technology, customer data and other operational systems from cyberattacks, it system outages, telecommunications failures, malicious human acts and failure of the systems of third parties upon which the company relies. (o) development of technologies that substantially alter the practice of clinical testing, including technology changes that lead to the development of more convenient or cost-effective testing, or testing to be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory, such as (1) point-of-care testing that can be performed by physicians in their offices, (2) advanced testing that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or (3) home testing that can be carried out without requiring the services of clinical laboratories. (p) negative developments regarding intellectual property and other property rights that could prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to develop, perform or sell our tests or operate our business. these include: (1) issuance of patents or other property rights to our competitors or others; and (2) inability to obtain or maintain adequate patent or other proprietary rights for our products and services or to successfully enforce our proprietary rights. (q) development of tests by our competitors or others which we may not be able to license, or usage (or theft) of our technology or similar technologies or our trade secrets or other intellectual property by competitors, any of which could negatively affect our competitive position. (r) regulatory delay or inability to commercialize newly developed or licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate reimbursements for such tests. (s) the complexity of billing and revenue recognition for clinical laboratory testing. (t) changes in interest rates and changes in our credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's, moody's investor services or fitch ratings causing an unfavorable impact on our cost of and access to capital. (u) inability to hire or retain qualified or key senior management personnel. (v) terrorist and other criminal activities, hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters, and public health emergencies and health pandemics, which could affect our customers or suppliers, transportation or systems, or our facilities, and for which insurance may not adequately reimburse us. (w) difficulties and uncertainties in the discovery, development, regulatory environment and/or marketing of new services or solutions or new uses of existing tests. (x) failure to adapt to changes in the healthcare system (including the medical laboratory testing market) and healthcare delivery, including those stemming from the aca (or its repeal, amendment or replacement), pama, trends in utilization of the healthcare system and increased patient financial responsibility for services. (y) results and consequences of governmental inquiries. (z) difficulty in implementing, or lack of success with, our strategic plan. (aa) the impact of informatics on our industry and the ability of our company to adapt to that impact. (bb) failure to adequately operationalize appropriate controls around use of our data, including risk of non-compliance with privacy law requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations.